We continue to expect that we'll see the
25 basis point cut delivered this week.
>> The Federal Reserve opinion is 3% is
neutral. My view is 4% is neutral.
>> The big debate there is do they show one
more cut after September or do they show
two more cuts and I think it's going to
be a very close call.
>> The risk is that the Fed ultimately
won't deliver as much as they should. I
don't think anyone would be completely
shocked by, you know, a more dovish bias
here.
>> This is Bloomberg surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
An Marie Hordern.
[Music]
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning. For our
audience worldwide, Bloomberg
surveillance starts right now. Coming
into Wednesday, it's Fed decision day.
>> Be much slower. I've just signed his uh
document and all of the papers and Steve
Myron is now on. I have a better
instinct than him. If you look, all the
economists got it wrong. I got it right.
They should listen to people that are
smart, but they have to make their own
choice.
The president expected to get exactly
what he wants. With that decision just
hours away, we're live from the home of
Bank of America here in New York City,
where some of the very best at the firm
will be joining us, including the man
himself, the chairman and CEO, Brian
Moahan.
>> And honestly, John, to me, this is the
key economic indicator. What are
corporate executives seeing when they
look out there and see the activity at a
time where it's very difficult to
understand whether the labor market's
rolling over, whether we're going to see
ongoing weakness, or whether we're
actually potentially going to see a
reaceleration heading into the end of
the year. It's a really odd situation
here across Wall Street. You've got
equities at all-time highs, credit
spreads incredibly tight. We've had a
massive downshift in payrolls, and this
Federal Reserve is spooked, and it's
about to cut interest rates with
inflation closer to three than it is to
two.
>> So, it raises a question about what it
would take for people to worry about
inflation again. Are we seeing some kind
of deflationary bubble or uh sort of the
opposite that will allow some sort of
soft landing? These are the questions
that people on the ground can see.
Yesterday we caught up with Scott Kirby
of United and what he had to say was he
actually sees an economy that's
reacelerating. The first half looked
like it was a recession and right now
what he sees is bookings picking up,
demand picking up, people upgrading when
it comes to the type of class that
they're traveling and this signifies
exactly what we keep seeing and hearing
about from a couple of different
indicators.
>> Plus, we've got to address the elephant
in the room. And the elephant in the
room down in Washington DC is Governor
Steven Myron. How big is the descent
going to be if there is any from
Governor Myron at his first meeting?
>> Yeah, there is the expectation right now
that there will be three descents and it
will be of course Chris Waller, Mickey
Bowman and Steven Myron and it will be
for a 50 basis point rate cut rather
than a 25 basis point rate cut. What
happens if it's a 100 basis point rate
cut? Does this mean that Stephen Myron
isn't serious about becoming a permanent
member of the Federal Reserve? Does it
mean he's more serious because he's
trying to plate the president and wants
to ingratiate himself? And what does the
market do with that? Right? Do they just
dismiss that as an outlier or do they
start to see that as the gravitational
force for the rest of the committee?
>> That's a flavor of things to come maybe
for 2026 and beyond. A flavor of things
to come this hour. This is the next 60
minutes on this program. Coming up,
we'll catch up with Vet Karia on growing
demand for AI. We'll speak to Lorraine
Hutchinson on the strength of the
consumer and Liz Ever on the outlook for
small business. We begin this hour with
equities coming off record highs as we
count you down to the today's Federal
Reserve interest rate decision. Mark
Cabana, the head of US race strategy at
Bank of America, writes the following.
We expect the Fed to cut by 25 basis
points with a statement reflecting a
marktomarket economic assessment and
limited forward guidance. Mark and Jared
Woodard, the head of the research
investment committee at Bank of America.
Join us now. Jent, it's good to see you.
>> Thanks so much for being here.
>> Let's just start with expectations and
first of all, thanks for having us. 25
basis points widely expected. It's got
to be about the guidance later on this
afternoon. What are you and the team
looking for? We actually think that the
Fed will be delivering a hawkish cut
today simply because the market is
pricing in almost 70 basis points of
rate cuts, excuse me, this year, about
150 basis points for the cycle. And we
think the Fed at most is going to send a
signal that they'll be cutting twice
this year and only twice next year. So,
in relation to where the market is
priced, we do think that that's going to
come across as somewhat hawkish. Now, we
don't think that Powell is going to tell
the market that it's wrong. Um, but we
do think that he's going to provide very
limited guidance. He's not going to
guide on October. The market's pricing
at about 20 basis points of a rate cut
at that meeting. And we just think that
the market, if they're looking for any
justification that this is a Fed that's
going to be cutting quickly, won't
really get that through the mix of
communications today. Now, the market
may look through that. It may know that
look, the Fed is not going to tell us
that they're cutting in October. And it
may be more focused on the dissents, the
size of those dissents, and then what
the market thinks that means for how the
dissenting officials will vote in the
future. Um, the Myron descent is key for
the market. He's new. We don't know much
about him and how he thinks about
monetary policy today. So, if it's a 75
basis point descent or a 100 basis point
descent, the market will be taking some
cue from that, we expect. Do you think
he would go as far as dissenting for a
100 basis point reduction at this
meeting? It is a low probability, but I
wouldn't rule it out.
>> Jerry, this goes to the question of what
people do with that in allocation. Does
that mean just keep going into risk
assets and sell long bonds, or does this
mean everything could be bid up because
suddenly we're looking at unconventional
policies that will lift all asset prices
in the United States?
>> It's a great question, Lisa, because I
think the the moment of truth is coming
uh for for a lot of investors. Think
about all the people who've been
content, even thrilled to have uh spare
cash sitting in higher yielding
accounts, money market accounts earning
4%, 4 and a half%. As Mark and our
economists and everyone thinks ahead to
the future and we forecast a terminal
rate next year of 3, three and a
quarter%. Uh suddenly those higher
yielding cash accounts are start to look
a lot less attractive, especially if
inflation remains sticky. You've got a
big decision to make at that point. And
and to your point at the top, Lisa,
actually, the the tension now isn't just
between the the soft data and the hard
data, which we've been writing about all
year, the surveys that are negative, and
the economic data, which is holding up
pretty pretty well. It's now almost a
fight between the hard data and the hard
data on the labor side and retail sales
being strong. So investors have to
decide if the Fed's behind the curve, if
the economy is actually getting weaker,
then maybe that cash isn't looking
attractive, but longerterm bonds might
be good for a trade. If the economy
holds up, if the airline executives and
and and the bank executives and the and
the retail sales data all confirm
economy that's really strong, there's
lots of places to go in equities that
are going to be more attractive than
cash. There's it's hard to overstate.
This isn't cash on the sidelines. This
is cash on the sidelines in the
bleachers up to the press box, you know,
amount of cash with with almost 20
trillion in cash and cash equivalents
today.
>> Well, these are diametrically opposed
outcomes. This is the problem right now.
You either have a completely risk-on
environment where potentially you see
greater inflation or you see a riskoff
environment where you want the long bond
to lock in that 4% uh yield. You want to
be in the bleachers. You want to be in
the nosebleleeds, right? Because
ultimately it's going to be a difficult
moment. What's going to be the tell? How
will we know exactly which scenario it
is? Is there an economic data point or
does it really hinge on the Fed's
reaction function?
>> I think it's labor markets and credit
spreads are the most important things to
watch. Uh I can tell you from speaking
to a lot of investors this summer around
the world and in the United States that
that uh the expectation remains that if
you get economic weakness, the Fed
stands ready and willing and at at this
level of interest rates has some
credible firepower to address that
quickly. given the discussion on fiscal
policy and and and and broader policy
environment, there's a an understanding
even an assumption among a lot of
investors of every type that the Fed
will engage and can fix what may or may
not be broken in the US economy if it
comes to that. And so even if you get a
great moment for a long bond trade, it
may just be a moment if the Fed is
aggressive as they seem to be, you know,
willing to be, in which case for a
longerterm investor, equity, equity,
income starts to look really attractive.
>> Let's unpack some of that. So you said
focus on two things. Labor and credit
spreads. So, as we know, we could look
at credit spreads right now. Investment
grade spreads, multi-deade tights. The
labor market's a little bit more
complex. It depends how you measure it.
Unemployment's been really steady
through the summer. And then you've got
this massive step down in payrolls.
Mark, for you and the team, do you think
the step down in payrolls overstates the
weakness, the broad-based weakness that
you might be seeing elsewhere?
>> Uh, we do. And this is because we're
seeing a, as Pal describes, a curious
condition where labor supply is coming
down at the same time as labor demand.
Labor supply is naturally falling due to
immigration policies, deportations, etc.
And so you have to be careful in how you
read the headline employment numbers in
that context, we think. And it's useful
to focus on labor market ratios,
unemployment rate, hiring rate, quits
rate, things of that nature. And many of
these labor market ratios tell you that
the labor market remains very healthy um
and actually hasn't moderated at all, at
least some of them. Now, the
unemployment rate has ticked up a little
bit. We're going to hear from the Fed
later today that they're increasingly
worried about the labor market, at least
in relation to inflation. They're going
to overweight the labor data versus the
inflation data or at least that's what
we those are some of the sounds we think
we will hear and see in the summary of
economic projections. Uh but generally
speaking, it is an environment where if
the Fed is more focused on the labor
market, as we think they will be, then
rates are going to probably continue to
decline even more than what is currently
priced. Now, we think investors should
be long the belly of the curve, receive
the 5-year part of the curve due to the
fact that the market is only pricing a
Fed that's cutting to a little under 3%.
And we think, as we've discussed before,
the market is underappreciating the
range of outcomes that can exist below
the neutral rate where the Fed says they
will cut too. Uh the Fed's independence
does come into question when you when
you think about these things. But we see
risks, at least in the fixed income
world, that this is a Fed that will be
increasingly dismissive of inflation,
focused on the labor market, use that to
justify a string of rate cuts. And if
that's right, and I tell Jared that, it
sounds like risk assets are going to do
really well. Or at least that would be
my expectation.
>> Mark is asking a really provocative
question. Why would they stop at three?
I think it's the right question to ask
going into 26 because this could be a
very, very different Federal Reserve.
Why would they stop at three? And how
hot are they willing to run this thing
into next year?
>> It's difficult to make, you know, make
predictions, especially about the future
and and the and the and and the the
mindset people will be in.
uh with economic data that will also be
difficult to to predict. I think the
point about the the the opacity uh on
the labor market is incredibly important
here. Um where the Fed might stop and
and and why they might I think depends
on the data and and the message that I
get from investors pretty clearly is we
care about you know total returns that
we can take home now and and and risk
that we don't have to you know think too
hard about. Um and and if you if you
suggest an asset allocation or an
investment policy that requires a lot of
contingent planning for the path of
policy, the path of the economy, it
starts to look pretty difficult. We know
that there's yields available in the
market today on assets that are giving
you reliable cash flows. You don't have
to reach out for speculative growth into
the future. You don't have to reach out
for speculative duration, you know, in
the in the bond market. That requires a
lot of planning around these contingent
policy decisions. So more and more
conversations with investors that we
have are focused on where can I get
reliable cash flows from a business that
I can understand where I don't have to
make all these these grand macroeconomic
assumptions about policy or the economy.
And
>> if I can just add to that, one of the
things that we have seen in the bond
market and certainly you all have
noticed is that there's been a bit of a
of a bull flattening in the rates market
right now which means that rates are
going down but it's led by the very long
end. um really dismissive of fiscal
concerns which were so prominent a few
months ago. And what we think is
happening at least in the Treasury space
is that investors are reducing some of
the steepening positions that worked
very well. But to Jared's point, they're
also reaching out and they're trying to
lock in duration and coupon where they
can. They're just trying to get those
interest rates before they go down even
further. And the market may not like the
fact that it has to extend right now,
but it's really trying to lock in where
it can because it does sense there's a
big turn in the rate cycle. And later
this afternoon, we're going to see
evidence of that.
>> Jared, I just want to ask whether the
prospect of yield curve control or the
suspicion that that could be deployed
has killed bond v bond vigilantes.
>> It may be it may be the the prospect of
yield control. may be um uh expectations
around fiscal policy and and the and the
widespread adoption of of industrial
policy uh that might be more productive
if we can try a bullish scenario on for
size you know for once
um the what whatever the whatever the
range of catalysts and scenarios I think
it's pretty clear that the kinds of
fears that we've heard about some of us
our entire career um haven't still been
realized think about six 7% uh budget
deficits in peace time, you know, in in
in an economic, you know, strong bull
market and and the 10 years is really is
so quiet. It's it's amazing for anyone
who's been afraid their whole career
about the the bond vigilantes. When will
they come? Maybe they're they're, you
know, they're they're a much further
distance off than maybe it's old curve
control that finally wakes them up. But
if it's not that, it's always something
else, isn't it? If I can add on to that
just briefly, there's been a lot of
focus in the market at least yesterday
due to some Bloomberg reporting uh
highlighting the fact that Steven Myin
in his prepared remarks for his Senate
confirmation did talk about the Fed's
third mandate which doesn't get a lot of
focus. But if you read the Federal
Reserve Act, it is true there's a
three-part mandate. Maximum employment,
stable prices, and moderate long-term
interest rates. Now many in the market
believe that you don't need to focus on
that third mandate because if you take
care of the first two on labor and
inflation then interest rates will be
moderate. But the fact that that was
mentioned has uh let's say awakened some
to the notion that oh wow maybe this is
actually a precursor to the Fed using
its balance sheet in very
non-traditional ways. Now that's
definitely reading between the lines.
There's not any elaboration on that, but
certainly the market I think has been a
little bit more open to that and that
may be on the margin contributing to
some of the increased bullish sentiment
at the long end of the US rates curve.
>> This was a great way to start the
program. Jent, appreciate your time for
looking forward to it. Plenty more still
to come on this program as we count you
down to that Fed decision. Big question,
how's the coffee?
>> Well, the coffee is great and honestly
it sounds like a game. I honestly I love
being on the trading floor because it
always sounds like
>> the sound of the Bloomberg.
>> Yeah, it's music, right?
>> It's a beautiful thing.
>> I love it.
>> Let's give you an update on News Sweet
with your top stories in your Bloomberg
brief. Here's Vonyie Quinn. Hey, Vonyie.
>> Hey, John. Thanks. House Republicans
unveiled a stop gap spending bill to
keep the government open passed an
October 1st deadline. The measure would
keep agencies operating through November
21st and provide new funding for
security. Democrats oppose the bill
increasing the chances of a shutdown.
President Donald Trump announced a deal
to keep Tik Tok running in the United
States. According to the agreement,
which has yet to be finalized, US
companies including Oracle, Silverlake,
and Andre Horowitz would take an 80%
stake in the social media app. China's
Bite Dance would own less than 20%,
satisfying a 2024 US law that required
the Beijing based company to divest.
A close encounter for Air Force One on
its way to the UK. A New York-based air
traffic controller noticed a Spirit
Airlines passenger jet flying at a
similar altitude and on a converging
flight path with the president's plane.
The controller alerted the Spirit pilots
to change course immediately. The planes
were never in danger of exceeding safety
thresholds. And that is your Bloomberg
brief, John.
>> Hey Vonyie, thank you. Appreciate it. Up
next on the program, the Bank of America
senior semiconductors analyst VC area.
He joins us next live from New York City
here at the headquarters of Bank of
America right here in the heart of Wall
Street. This is Bloomberg.
[Music]
The Federal Reserve opinion is 3% is
neutral. Uh my view is 4% is neutral. If
the takeaway is that we're not starting
25 basis points per meeting, I think the
market sells off.
>> The Fed wants to cut rates to stimulate
an economy with no excess capacity.
They're just going to create more
inflation.
>> The risk is that at some point next
year, the Fed says, "Look, we have to
actually hike."
>> We're looking for 25 basis points later
on this afternoon from the Federal
Reserve. Some people looking for 50.
Standard Chartered Sockgen, they're the
outlight that's going into this meeting.
The big question for a lot of you is the
guidance. Show me the guidance for 25
and beyond into 26. Can those dots come
down from two down to three?
>> Yeah. And will Steven Myron's guidance
be actually available to it? Will his
dot be included? You asked me yesterday,
what does his dot look like? Unclear
whether we'll see it cuz they have to be
submitted on Friday. Do they make an
exception for him?
>> We're going to find out a little bit
later this afternoon. That's the big
tease for the decision later. Just where
is Steven Myron stock going to be now?
Governor Myron, of course, your equity
market shaping up as follows. Equity
futures on the S&P 500 just about
unchanged. We've been treading water
over the last 24 hours. A little bit
positive on the Russell 2000 up by
around about a tenth of 1%. If you turn
to the bond market, 2-year, 10year, and
30-year bond yields shaping up as
follows. Twos have settled down around
350. The surprise of the last two weeks
coming into September was the bull
flattener that Mark Cabana was talking
about. The long end of the yield curve,
yields starting to come in. We've got
tens around four.
>> Yeah. and Mark Cabana talking about how
a lot of investors are trying to lock in
lower yields as it does seem like the
Federal Reserve is dead set on lowering
rates and the question now is just
what's the limit. Question that I have
is when did bond vigilantes come back or
are they a fiction? Are they going to be
a novel not some sort of non-fiction
creative endeavor?
>> Will they be crushed by the Federal
Reserve in 2026?
>> Are they going to be crushed by yield
curve control? Have they been crushed by
circumstances that seem to have moved
against them?
>> Yield's down by about a basis point so
far this morning. Let's turn to tech.
What a run. A 9-day winning streak on
the NASDAQ 100 halted just briefly
yesterday. On tech vcaria, the senior
semiconductors analyst at Bank of
America writing the following. The
cyclical framework still broadly favors
semis but market volatility could
re-energize investor debates. VC joins
us now for more. VC, good to see you.
>> Good morning.
>> Good morning. Thank you for having us.
Let's just talk about your sector. It is
like the only sector in financial
markets right now. It's where all the
focus is. Walk us through why it's
having such a good run at the moment.
>> Sure. I think um you know semiconductors
are participating in every aspect of the
global economy um right uh you know AI
is the most prominent of them but if you
uh take uh the role of semiconductors
and automotive right that's a multi-
trillion dollar industry that is
transforming with the advent of more
electrified cars right and
semiconductors today are only 2% of the
cost of making a car so think about
where that goes over time right
industrial look at things like factory
automation uh cyber security uh medical
instrumentation um right PCs, servers,
cloud computing. So what's happening is
that as the global economy is uh getting
more automated and smarter I think that
naturally increases the role of
semiconductors in the economy and we
think this continues.
>> At the same time we seem to have
introduced a lot of political risk into
the industry. There is a clash right now
between the United States and China.
There was some news overnight about
China pushing some companies to hold the
use of certain Nvidia chips. How does
that complicate things for the life of
an analyst?
>> Sure, I I I think it it is a concern. Um
you know, first uh having uh friction
between the largest designer of chips,
which is the US, and one of the largest
buyers of chips, which is China, is not
a good thing for a global industry. Uh
the reason that semiconductors have
become so profitable as an industry,
right? And just to give give some
numbers uh the average semiconductor
company is two to three times uh more
better in terms of free cash flow
generation than an average S&P 500
company right so it's an extremely
profitable industry and the reason it
has become so profitable is because it
has developed these pools of excellence
right there are certain companies who do
manufacturing very well certain who do
materials very well right certain who do
GPUs very well etc so whenever you have
friction in this well balanced ecosystem
it creates a problem but having said all
that you know We have to realize that um
you know this tension between US and
China has been going on for some time.
The specific article from this morning
right Nvidia and and China China is a
very small part of their sales at like
less than 5% of their sales right now.
So I think a lot of this is more noise
rather than something that actually
impacts their fundamentals.
>> There's a bigger question though which
is in the race for chip excellence. How
far behind is China from the United
States? Can they stop buying US chips
and continue to develop at the same rate
when it comes to the race for AI? Sure.
No, that that's a good question. Um, see
if I look over the last 10 years, um,
and if I just go by, you know, follow
the money, right? If I look at global
cloud capex,
Chinese hyperscalers or Chinese cloud
companies are less than 10% of the
global spending, right? That that's the
reality, right? They are less than 10%
of the global spending. China doesn't
have access to the latest in chip
manufacturing equipment. um you know
what is the Chinese equivalent of
Windows or Linux or uh Nvidia's CUDA
ecosystem it doesn't exist so I think
they are hampered because of a lot of
reasons right but there are incredibly
innovative software designers right in
China deepseek was a prime example of
that so I think somehow the industry
will have to find the right balance
where they are able to take advantage of
a lot of the software innovations in
China but I think China as a whole it is
important to realize is less than 10% of
AI chip demand right now which is why it
is not as big a deal if you see this
frequent noise about restrictions.
>> There's also this question about if we
are going to see some sort of broadening
out or an ongoing sort of efficiency
from the use of AI, shouldn't we see a
shift from the enablers to the adopters
to the other companies especially given
some of the studies that have said that
companies are struggling to monetize uh
their AI investments.
>> Sure. Uh absolutely. And I think um you
know so first of all we are already
starting to see that um right because if
you look at uh the amount of tokens
right consumed by Microsoft or or open
AI or Google or others you know you see
extremely strong growth every time
Microsoft reports they actually go out
of the way to tell people this is how
much incremental growth we got from AI.
So I think we are already starting to
see signs of those investments. But it's
also important to realize that you know
infrastructure cycles can last a decade.
You know 4G was the last big cycle. 4G
deployment started in 2010 and people
were deploying 4G capacity in 2020. But
when you make money is actually in the
first half of the cycle. So when did
chat GPT start? Late 22. So we are
really only in the second or third year
of what have historically been decadel
long cycles. So I still think there is
more room I think for investors to
benefit from. It doesn't sound like
you're worried about a massive
misallocation of resources and a decade
long run of overinvestment that leads to
a bust, right? Uh see that is very
endemic to the infrastructure industry
that you're going to have invariably a
period of digestion after every 3 to
four years. What makes the AI cycle
different is that it is not just these
three or four large US companies that
are investing. Look at the number of
countries, regions, states, so-called
sovereign AI, right? This morning
there's a lot of news about Nscale in
the UK deploying a lot right lot of
products. Um you know uh earlier this
year all the uh announcements that
Nvidia and AMD and other made in the
Middle East because every country wants
to be self-sufficient in this new
technology right and the third is
enterprises enterprise adoption of
generative AI is just getting going. So
I think that's why you know it's
>> we are not at even close to the middle
stages of this build up
>> which is unbelievable to try and
imagine. We appreciate your time is
going to thank you sir Ari there of bank
of America. Up next we'll head to
London. We'll catch up with Amarie for
the latest with the president and we'll
have a little look at retail.
[Music]
Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning to you all. Lucky to be at
the Bank of America trading floor,
anticipating that big Fed decision later
on this afternoon. That decision at 2:00
p.m. Eastern time. 3 hours away from the
opening bell. Equity futures shaping up
like this so far this morning on the S&P
500. Really mild moves yesterday. Pretty
mild follow through to this morning as
well. Going nowhere on the S&P 500.
Pretty much unchanged on the NASDAQ,
too. The Russell absolutely unchanged
and dead flat after a really nice run
through August and into September since
the Fed last met. Small caps up by more
than 7%. Let's get you some single
names. Let's get you some morning
movers. Here's Danny Burgerer with more.
Hey Danny.
>> Hey John. A rough morning for Nvidia
after a story from the FT saying that
China is banning or at least telling the
big companies do not buy any more Nvidia
chips. That's the likes of Alibaba, of
Bite Dance. The chips that are
specifically tailor made for China comes
amid those discussions between the US
and China and Madrid. So those shares
off 1.6%. Elsewhere in tech, the HR
software maker Workday that gets a boost
of 6.4% after Elliot Management
disclosed a stake in the company. In
doing so, they praised the CEO. They
praised the company and the turnaround
efforts that they have been undertaking.
So again, those shares rallying off the
back of that. Finally, this morning for
your movers, you're looking at Eli Lily
slightly down. They published a study on
their obesity pill and it showed enough
effectiveness that it makes sense for a
wider use. The problem with it is is
that the results weren't as convincing
as the pill from Nova Nordis or even
their own shots or the shots from Nova
Nortis. So, Nova Nordis rises on that
news up 1.3% and just adding insult to
injury. Baronberg also upgrading Nova
Nortis saying that it is its preferred
choice for obesity pills instead of Eli
Loey. John,
>> Danny, thank you. Appreciate it. More
from Danny in the next hour. I promised
the trip to London. Let's do it. In the
British capital, in the city of London,
Amarie joins us now for more. Tracking
the president's state visit. And Marie,
not the first, but for the second time.
>> For the second time. It's an
unprecedented state visit. The president
talked about this as he departed the
White House yesterday. He will be
arriving at Windsor Castle just behind
me in under 60 minutes time. time. So,
just under an hour, a lot of pomp and
circumstance is going to be on display
today. This is really the heart of the
state visit. The president says he's
mostly going primarily to see his friend
King Charles talked about their
long-term relationship. And then on top
of that, of course, there's going to be
lots of chatter about economic deals,
trade deals, and the likes. We should
discuss though where we are right now,
what the president of United States is
stepping into. Remember seven months ago
when Kier Starmmer came to Washington DC
brought this unprecedented invitation
from King Charles for a sec second state
visit. Kier Starmer was looking quite um
up in the polls in the United Kingdom.
It was viewed as a very clever
diplomatic olive branch the president
United States and at that moment it did
work. We did see the UK jumped to the
top of the queue. They had this
fasttrack trade agreement. It was
announced in May. I was with the
president when he was on the phone with
Kier Starmmer announcing that deal and
then it was signed along the sidelines
of the G7. Well, right now politically
the president is walking into a prime
minister that is on thin ice with the
British public underwater in the polls.
One recent Yuggov poll said just 22% of
British people have faith in this
government and the past two weeks have
been incredibly difficult for him where
there's forced departures of his deputy
prime minister and most notably for the
special relationship between Washington
and the UK. The British ambassador to
the United States was sacked after
revelations in a Bloomberg News article
given his close ties with Jeffrey
Epstein. So, it's going to be a
challenging one, more so for the British
prime minister than it is for President
Donald Trump, who many say has the
leverage right now walking in to this
state visit.
Amarie, the UK is not doing so well. We
know that based on the economic data,
from what we've seen in terms of stories
from big tech firms over the last week,
maybe corporate America is about to
bring some good news. What kind of tech
deals are lined up when the president
lands and addresses the king and the
prime minister?
>> Tons of tech deals. This is really where
the heart of the economic agreements are
going to lie, especially given the
president is going to be flanked this
evening at the banquet with the likes of
Nvidia's Jensen Wang, the CEO of
Microsoft, as well as an individual who
is notably absent on his Middle East
tour, Tim Cook of Apple, reports saying
he will attend the state banquet this
evening. We are talking about 10 billion
dollars already lined up to build out
the AI industry in the United Kingdom.
And this is really important for the UK.
They want to make sure that the United
Kingdom is not left behind in the next
phase of this technological advancement
and also they see it as an economic
development potentially in Northern
England to bring these AI data centers
and AI infrastructure. So that is going
to be really the hallmark of the
business and economic ties here with the
president of the United States and the
prime minister and the royal family.
It's going to be all about these tech
deals between open AI, Nvidia,
Microsoft, Google and the list just
continues.
Amarie on tour. You enjoy yourself. AMH
live from Windsor this morning. Amarie,
we'll catch up with you in about an hour
from now. We've all heard about these
tech deals. We've all talked about this
AI spend. Let's talk about energy
consumption. You and I started the week
talking about this. In the UK, some of,
if not the highest energy prices in the
G7, and you've got tech firms lined
enough to spend more on something that
is really energy intensive. I don't
think it's all good news for the UK off
the back of these deals. Where's the
energy going to come from? And it goes
to a question that is perhaps more acute
in the United Kingdom but is pervasive
around the world which is can you
develop AI to the degree that people
want to do and at the speed without
developing energy in tandem and how do
you do that given the long-term nature
of some of these uh of some of these
plants and some of these electric
production places.
>> The consumer in the United Kingdom in a
tight spot right now. Let's talk about
the consumer in the United States.
Lorraine Hutchinson, senior retail
analyst at Bank of America, writing, "We
remain positive on off-pric retailers
and think price increases at other
retailers could cause consumers to trade
down. We expect this trend to continue
in the coming months." Lorraine joins us
now for more. Lorraine, good morning.
Good to see you.
>> Thanks for coming to our place today.
>> Thanks for having us. Retail sales
yesterday really quite punchy upside
surprise. Are you seeing signs of the
consumer re-engaging as we come out of
summer?
>> Absolutely. I mean, just when you think
you can count the consumer out, they do
something surprising. And I think uh not
just August but July retail sales, the
really important back- to-school selling
season spans mid July through mid
August. Those were phenomenal weeks
according to our BAC credit card data
for clothing spend. And it's a surprise
because we've seen about 3 years of
declines in that category and suddenly
they're back. Is it consolidated in the
upper income sphere? The idea that
people who can experience the wealth
effect of stock markets, who do have
some disposable cash, can go out and
spend. but the others not so much. Do
you feel like that's really the trend
you're seeing break down?
>> I think it is. Uh what we're seeing in
our data is that the upper income
consumer is spending a lot more than the
lower income consumer where we're seeing
a little bit of signs of pressure. Uh
we're also seeing the upper income
consumer trade down a bit, you know, and
you referenced the off-pric retailers.
They're seeing much higher income
consumers come in looking for deals. Um
and I think that's, you know, it's
encouraging for them. It's in it's
encouraging. It's it's showing you that
the consumer really is very judicious
about how they're spending and they want
to try to get the best value for their
dollar. Not always the lowest price, the
best value for their money. How much is
this that some of these off-pric
retailers are catering to higher income
individuals simply because that is where
the money has been. So they are sort of
directing more of their product versus
some sort of trading down or a signal on
the economy that there really is fear
that things are going to weaken. They're
absolutely doing that. Um they're seeing
the opportunity to get a trade down
customer which they've been missing for
the past few years. And you see uh you
know TJ Maxx always has a higherend
consumer coming in to sort of peak at
what brands they have. You're seeing raw
stores and Burlington actually come in
with much better branded product and
they're they're reaping the benefits of
it.
>> They've had some massive gains over the
last quarter. I think 10 15% for ROS
stores and TJX as well. Let's talk about
tariffs mitigation strategies. What kind
of mitigation strategies have these
companies introduced and how sustainable
do you think they are?
>> Yeah, I mean the the number the first
thing you do is you negotiate with your
vendors, right? Can you produce
elsewhere? Can you produce more
efficiently? We're hearing from our
colleagues in Asia that the factories
are providing some relief for the cost.
Um the second thing is can you be more
efficient as a retailer, right? What
costs can you cut? How can you you do
whatever you can internally to try to
mitigate these? And then the last thing
is pricing. And that is a very hot topic
right now. Um they will all raise prices
for holiday. Um not all but most. And I
think the risk here and and the
uncertainty. And when I speak to these
retail management teams, there is a ton
of uncertainty, right? We had a great
back to school, but what's coming is
price increases because they can't take
the brunt of the tariffs to their bottom
line.
>> Let's just build on this a little bit
more. So the tariffs go on either the
exporters can drop prices. You suggested
some of that is happening.
>> The companies here domestically can take
it on margin. We've seen some signs of
them absorbing costs. And then the third
piece of this is the pass through to
consumers that you've touched on. I
think this is the most important piece
of this particularly for the Federal
Reserve decision later on this
afternoon. What is it about this moment
that you see is inevitable that the pass
through will be coming in the coming
months? Yeah, it's so right now the
product that is hitting the distribution
centers for most retailers is carrying
the full weight of the tariffs. So for
back to school it wasn't. They had some
inventory already when the tariffs went
into place and then they bought the rest
at 10% universal. Right now we're up to
for my companies an average of 20%
universal. That's a much bigger ticket
for them. So for holiday they will need
to pass through some pricing and they've
all tested they've done elasticity tests
but it's in a vacuum right nothing else
has been inflationary so now everything
will go up in price a little bit and the
consumer will decide what they want to
buy.
>> What's a little bit just do you have any
sense of what we're talking about?
>> We are hearing low singledigit price
increases for the most part and that
will do a decent job of offsetting some
of it. Now, now we we still saw most of
my retailers cut guidance throughout the
second quarter earnings period because
they needed to take some of the hits
themselves and then over time they hope
to mitigate all of it, but that would
require some pricing.
>> There's also a question about what costs
they are cutting and this is the other
side of the Fed mandate, right, which is
the jobs market and how much they are
reducing some of their overhead by
shrinking their workforce, adopting more
technology that could potentially fill
in the gaps. How much are you seeing
this uh really play out in real time?
>> They're they're looking under every no
stone unturned on the cost structure. Um
we haven't seen broad layoffs or
anything like that. I think it's more
just about efficiency and trying to make
sure that they're getting, you know, the
the best bang for their buck on what
they are spending. But I think it will
depend on the consumer's reaction to the
price increases. If it goes through,
we're fine, right? if it if the consumer
decides and and remember with this is I
cover a purely discretionary group. You
don't really need anything that they
sell. So you make the choice. You decide
what the price is, right? If it's too
expensive, you go somewhere else. And so
the consumer has a lot of power right
now and that's what's causing the
consternation from the companies
>> of the companies that fall under your
coverage. Just a final question, which
one is operating from a position of
strength? Which one can be a little bit
more aggressive going into year end? I I
mean I I think it's the off-pric
retailers as we discussed earlier. They
have a lot of flexibility in what they
buy and they have the opportunity to
gain a lot of trade down customers with
great brands. So I think they're in a
real position of strength. And then the
others that I would highlight are are
anybody with real brand heat at the
higher end. It's easier for them to take
price because the upper income consumer
notices it less.
>> Lorraine, this was great. It's good to
catch up and touch base.
>> Thank you.
>> Thanks for having us. Loren Hutchinson
there of Bank of America. We've talked
about this a few times on this program.
Tariffs, don't think of it as an event.
It's a process. And what you just heard
there is that the next step in that
process is potentially more pass
through.
>> Yeah. And the next step is whether
consumers will accept that. The
elasticity, this idea of whether uh they
really will be concerned, consumers,
about prices going up 5%, 4% or whether
they'll say, "Okay, we'll buy that."
which means you have an economy that
runs a little bit more robustly but with
a little bit hotter inflation versus
some sort of deflationary
uh slowdown in growth. This is the
conundrum for the Federal Reserve.
>> We'll have more on the consumer in just
a few moments time. Let's give you an
update on stories elsewhere this morning
with your Bloomberg brief. Let's cross
over to Vonyie Quinn. Hey Vonyie.
>> Hey John, thank you. Well, in the United
Kingdom, more data to support the Bank
of England holding rates steady at its
meeting this week. Inflation held at the
highest since early 2024 in August.
Consumer prices rose 3.8% from a year
ago in line with estimates. The data may
lead to an even longer pause in
borrowing costs.
President Donald Trump says he spoken to
Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi. In
a post on Truth Social, Trump said he
had a wonderful call with Modi,
complimented him on doing a tremendous
job, and thanked him for his support in
helping end the war in Ukraine. Modi
responded on Twitter saying he was
committed to supporting the India US
relationship.
President Trump has also been speaking
with Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin
Netanyahu. Speaking at a press
conference Tuesday night, Netanyahu said
he had a number of conversations with
the president after Israel's strike on
Hamas leaders in Doha and that they were
all quote very good. Netanyahu also
announced he will meet with Trump at the
White House September 29th. And that is
your Bloomberg brief. on.
>> Hey Vonnie, thank you. More from Vonnie
in about 30 minutes time. Retail sales
came in strong just yesterday. An upside
surprise. Were you surprised if you were
tracking credit card data at Bank of
America? You wouldn't have been. Up next
on the show, we'll catch up with Liz
Everett Chrisberg of Bank of America
Institute. From New York City, you're
watching Bloomberg TV.
[Music]
I think 25 basis points is pretty much a
done deal at this point. They should
have gone 25 already. I think 50 should
be on the table.
>> I don't think they're going to do 50. I
think it is justified.
>> The risk is that the Fed ultimately
won't deliver um as much as they should.
And that kind of uh reinforces the
slowing that we've already seen.
>> This is a big question for later this
afternoon. Can this Federal Reserve meet
this market? At the last time we got a
news conference and forecast, which was
earlier in the summer, they were looking
for two rate cuts in 2025. This market
is looking for three and it's looking
for a whole lot more in 2026. The bar
for this Federal Reserve is really quite
high following these really
disappointing payroll reports. Yeah,
especially given that they are still
dealing with a dual mandate that is very
much in conflict and that they're
dealing with a highly politicized
environment where there clearly is an
incentive at least by the administration
to cut rates. My question is how much
will that actually increase the pace of
lending at a time where financial
conditions already are pretty loose?
>> Let's get to the small business world.
Liz Everett Chrisberg, the head of the
Bank of America Institute writes the
following. Tariffs remain a hindrance to
small business profitability and have
continued to rise since the start of the
year. Liz joins us now for more. Liz,
good morning.
>> Good morning. Thank you guys for being
here. Great to have you here. Great
coffee. Oh, yeah. Great coffee.
>> She approves of the coffee and you want
to come back, right?
>> Well, I love the noises. It's great.
This is great.
>> Okay, I'm pleased we're down with that.
Let's deal with this. Of course, the
biggest small business lender in the
country.
>> Yes.
>> 17th consecutive quarter.
Congratulations for that.
>> What are you seeing in the small
business world right now? Do they need
lower interest rates? So what we're
seeing and by the way as you know seven
the largest small business lender for
the 17th quarter in a row we can see the
activity because we're providing these
small businesses with capital. But what
we're seeing is that profitability is
actually continuing to grow and it's
relatively stable. So it was up about a
half a percent in August same way that
it was in in July. But we are seeing
that despite kind of the tariff
pressures and hiring is also a bit of a
challenge and we're starting to see
hiring pulled back. So one of the things
that we see in our data from a spending
perspective, what we measure is we
measure the um the payments that small
businesses are making to hiring firms.
And that has been a pretty good
indicator of what's going on with the
labor market. And in August we saw that
drop by 6% on an absolute basis. was the
lowest payment level of payments we've
seen since we started this series back
in 2023. So, you're seeing small
businesses kind of pull back on their
hiring kind of it particularly in retail
and um and services firms, financial
firms, insurance firms. But there is one
area of small business where we're
seeing hiring fees go up and that's
manufacturing construction.
Why is that? Very likely has to do with
some of the changes in immigration
policy. If you look at the percentage of
construction workers who are not
nativeorn, it's relatively high.
>> Do you think that's the start of
something bigger? We've talked about
this low hire low fire jobs market for a
long time. Trying to work out which way
it breaks. Can it maintain the sort of
status quo? Does it have to break one
way or the other?
>> So here's here's one of the things.
Let's go look at our consumer data and
understand what that's showing us about
the labor market. Surprisingly, given
what we're seeing in the in in the
non-farm payroll numbers and whatnot,
we're actually seeing wages continue to
increase across all income groups. So,
higher, middle, and lower income groups,
you're continuing to see their wages
increase. Higher income wages increase
3.6%. That is the highest level we've
seen since November 2021. But lower
income consumers, lower income
household, their wage growth is le up
less than 1%. the lowest level of
absolute growth that we've seen since we
started the series back in 2016. So,
you're seeing a bit of a difference in
kind of a tale of two cities in terms of
of different levels of of wage growth of
income growth kind of across the
spectrum. When we talk about a tale of
two cities, it seems to be divided into
some of the large caps and the small
caps or have so far this year. this idea
that even as the likes of United see a
reaceleration in consumer demand, are
some of these smaller companies seeing
the same? Is there optimism increasing
heading into year end? I do I do think
that we are seeing payments away from
hiring. They are continuing to spend and
really where we're seeing a big
investment is in their technology spend.
So technology spend for small businesses
was up 10% last month. Now think about
that. What does that mean? That means
that these small businesses are
investing. They're looking at AI as ways
to kind of improve the productivity, but
that may also impact their hiring plans,
right? We've kind of that's across the
board. Small businesses, large
businesses, you're seeing that as well.
>> Well, I wonder then if rates do go down,
how much do you expect borrowing to
increase? What kind of rate cuts would
it take for a lot of these uh small
firms to borrow more and what would they
invest in?
>> That's a good question. You know, one of
the things that that we do is we look at
the data as it's happening. So what we
could look at is what they have been
investing in and I think technology is
probably where it's going to go.
>> So this actually goes to the question
that John was asking the low hire low
fire churn. Yeah.
>> Is this the new normal in terms of
invest in technology see if you can do
it with a bot. See if you can do it with
an AI uh agent and if you can't then I
guess you got to bring a body in.
>> Well I think the bodies one of the
bodies that we're seeing not come in is
younger workers. So if you look at the
unemployment rate for households, we're
seeing the biggest growth in households
getting unemployment being the younger
consumers. So recent college grads, Gen
Z, their unemployment, number of
households with um unemployments was up
11%.
In August right now, it's still off of a
relatively low base, but for those
younger consumers, are they getting into
the workforce? Low higher, low fire
means that if you already have a job,
you're continuing to to get paid. But
people getting into the workforce that
may be a bit of an issue. So something
that we're paying attention.
>> Have you got any thoughts on what's
behind that? What's holding them back?
What's holding back the hiring?
>> Well, I think it's I think it's
companies are looking at where they can
get efficiency, looking at, you know,
where a little uncertainty. Do we need
to bring on new people or can we just
continue with what we're doing what we
have right now? Is AI going to make that
more efficient? So, if you've got a job,
continuing to see pay increases, but if
you're trying to get into the market.
Now, the other thing that's interesting
is we're seeing many fewer people change
jobs. That's one of the things that
really drove the wage growth through the
pandemic because people could switch
jobs and get a lot more money. At the
peak, they were getting north of 20% to
switch jobs. What our data is showing us
now is actually we're down almost 25%,
more than 25% in terms of the number of
people who are changing jobs. So you
don't have that benefit of pushing up
your wages by changing jobs. Fewer
people changing jobs. And those who are
are only getting about a 7% average pay
bump. So you're not getting 20% to move
jobs. You're only getting seven. Fewer
people are doing it. That's kind of
keeping people where they are.
>> This labor market is not as tight as it
once was. Maybe perhaps that's what that
speaks to.
>> It's not as tight as it once was, but
it's also not falling off of a cliff,
right? Higher wage workers 3.6%. That's
you know that's more that's growing more
than they're spending which is also
relatively strong but it's more than
inflation too.
>> Can we talk about bank balances?
>> Yeah.
>> What are you seeing at the moment? I
always
checkpoint. Yeah.
>> So the financial picture continues to be
solid. If you cut the data by income, by
generation, everybody has more money in
their accounts um inflation adjusted
than before the pandemic with one
exception, and that's the
traditionalists, which are the
generation above boomers, and you would
expect to see them kind of pulling down
on their savings, but not only do people
have more money in their accounts,
you're also seeing um pretty healthy
credit card behavior, meaning fewer
people are carrying a balance. And those
that are carrying a balance, the ratio
of their credit card debt to their
income is actually coming down. And
again, it's because of the labor market.
Their wages are up.
>> Nothing is screaming cut interest rates
50 basis points based on that
conversation.
>> Well, and if you do cut by 50 basis
points, what it strikes me is where is
that investment going to go? Back into
tech. So tech is the new economy and any
kind of additional investment, that's
where it's headed.
>> Liz, it's good to see you.
>> Great. Thank you guys for being here.
>> Hey, thanks for having us. We appreciate
it. Liz Ever Chris there of Bank of
America Institute. Up next on the
program, we'll catch up with Sevita
Subrimanium, the equity and quantitative
strategy head. We'll speak to Eric Shy
and Lizzy Hans of Mel Wealth Management
and Wendy Stewart of the Global
Commercial Banking Unit from New York
City. This is Bloomberg.
[Music]
As long as the Fed is in motion towards
lower rates, I don't think that there's
a reason to sell. It's hard to short a
market in front of the Federal Reserve
cutting interest rates.
>> The risk is that, you know, at some
point next year, the Fed says, "Look, we
have to actually hike."
>> I do think that these Fed cuts are
getting increasingly priced in.
>> The market's still trying to weigh like
is something really breaking.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Bramowitz, and An
Marie Hordern.
[Music]
We are live from number one Brian Park,
the home of Bank of America right here
in New York City. Good morning to all.
The second hour of Bloomberg
surveillance starts right now with
equity futures on the S&P 500 pulling
back by not even a tenth of 1%. Just a
little bit of softness this morning.
Some mild moves yesterday. Treading
water going into the big one later on
this afternoon. The Federal Reserve
decision at 2:00 p.m. Eastern time. 30
minutes later, a news conference with
Chairman Pal. We are all focused on one
thing, not just the size of the cup,
it's the amount of guidance this
chairman can give.
>> Yeah. And potentially how many descents
there could be. Uh the expectation is
there could likely be three descents
from Steven Myron. Uh of course, we also
are expecting the other two dissenters
from the previous meeting at a time.
That would be the greatest number of
descents going back to 1988 just to give
you a sense. So yes, we're looking for
guidance from Jay Powell, but looking
forward, what does that mean in terms of
his tenure and how much this is a
fractured FLMC?
>> At some point, his guidance doesn't
matter. His m his guidance up matters up
until May of next year. After May of
next year, it's about someone else. And
maybe the clue comes from someone else.
Governor Myron stepping into this
meeting at the very last minute is going
to offer his views on where he thinks
policy should be. That's going to be a
massive focal point for a lot of people
in this market.
>> Yeah. Where's his dot? Does he have a
dot considering the fact that evidently
you have to submit your dot on Friday
before the meeting and he was uh
nominated and actually confirmed just
just days ago. So we're looking at the
potential for his dot to not even get
included. But if he does suggest that we
do see something like a 100 basis point
uh rate cut that that would be
appropriate in his view. If he sees
rates going down to 1%, do people take
that as a guide or is that the outlier?
Does that mean he's a credible
replacement for Jake Powell or even for
Lisa Cook or even for some of the others
or does this mean that really uh this is
sort of uh something that's sort of pie
in the sky
>> credible in the eyes of who in the eyes
of this market credible or in the eyes
of the president of the United States?
Isn't this the ultimate audition to stay
on the Federal Reserve for a whole lot
longer?
>> Well, this two go hand in hand, right?
The person has to be credible for
markets for the person to be tolerable
to uh the president. And this goes to
the question of what is the Fed's
response function if inflation starts to
pick up. And this goes to the conflict
in the data that we've seen where the
economy doesn't seem to be falling off a
cliff, but it is still that low, higher,
low fire type of current dynamic that's
giving some people anxiety about the
fragilities that are baked in.
>> We spent about 60 minutes so far with
the team here at Bank of America on the
trading floor and putting together a
picture of the way they view the world
right now. Yes, we've seen a step down
in activity in certain places,
particularly on hiring. But it might be
a mistake to anchor your whole view of
this economy just around one data point,
which is headline payrolls because
there's a lot of things happening
elsewhere that speak to an economy
that's holding up okay. Balances in
terms of consumer bank accounts just
fine. Retail spending exceeded
expectations. Yesterday, the United CEO
came out and said that he sees an
economy that is reacelerating. How much
can this continue? How much does this
hinge on just how much retailers and
other uh and other uh companies can pass
along price increases? These are some of
the questions that the Fed has to
wrestle with. It is a difficult moment,
but right now bond traders just betting
that rate cuts are coming and
potentially more as well.
>> Equity traders, too.
>> Yeah, exactly.
>> Equities close to alltime highs. Futures
this morning down by around about a
tenth of 1%. Coming up this hour, big
lineup over the next 60 minutes for you.
We'll catch up with Amy Lizau on the
shifting balance of power between CEOs
and investors. will speak to Eric Shy
and Lindsey Hans on why this is neither
a bull nor a bare market. Plus, Wendy
Stewart as investors navigate tariff
uncertainty. We begin this hour with
stocks hovering near record highs ahead
of today's key Fed rate decision. Svita
Subramani, the head of US equity and
quantitative strategy, writing the
following. It is difficult to be
outright bearish on risk assets with
signs of profits continuing to
accelerate alongside a Fed that is more
likely to ease than hold short rates.
Sevita plus Jill Kerry Hall the head of
US small and midcap strategy at Bank of
America joins us now for more guys. Good
to see you both.
>> Great to be here.
>> Thanks for being here. Sevita I want to
start with you. A central message of
your research for a long long time.
Never underestimate
the resilience of corporate America.
>> That's right.
>> Is that a mistake people have made a two
too many times this year so far?
>> Uh yeah. I think we even made it after
liberation day in thinking that, you
know, we were going to see companies not
being able to guide, not being able to
navigate this uh really complicated
environment. And what we saw was
corporates handling this with a plum and
uh essentially they were they continued
to guide on earnings. We saw no posity
of information. We heard a lot of
companies talk about their tariff
mitigation tactics, which I think was
interesting because they've seen this
before. They went through this in 2018.
Obviously, this is a little bit more
extreme, but companies know how to
manage. They just need a plan. And I
think that was what we were heartened to
see.
>> It's hard to have this conversation
about 25 or 50 from the Federal Reserve.
At the same time, the equity market is
close to all-time highs. and you and the
team here at Bank of America have
essentially forecasting an acceleration
in earnings for 2026. Can you make that
make sense to people at home listening
to this?
>> Well, yeah, we're actually forecasting a
slight deceleration but a broadening out
of earnings. And what I think is really
noteworthy and what investors need to
pay attention to is the idea that the
493 is actually back in the black. These
are companies that are making money. So,
it's not just tech all the time, which
has been the story for the last few
years. I think what's also interesting
is that tech companies are spending and
they're spending on everything. They're
spending on power grid, which is
actually positive for overall economic
growth. It's positive for commodities.
And I think that's the that's the
message we're giving investors today.
What's really thwarted uh broadening
this year, I think, is just this bomb of
tariff uncertainty that was dropped on
April 2nd. And we're at a point where
clarity has improved vastly around that
that issue. Not just the 493, the 2000.
And I am wondering, Jill, we have seen a
complete outperformance from the Russell
2000 of late. And you actually increased
your expectations for some of these
companies after being pretty sour on
them earlier this year, especially after
Jackson Hole. How much is this entirely
predicated on what the Fed does rather
than what Sevita is talking about which
all sounds lovely but it's been in
effect for quite a while.
>> Right. Well, I think the Fed has
certainly been the biggest one of the
biggest drivers of the Russell 2000 over
the last year or two. Some of the
biggest rallies and sell-offs we've seen
have been around Fed expectations or
data that feeds into that. So, I think
you know the the expectation of cuts
coming is certainly more positive for
the Russell and should lead it to
outperform near-term. But I think also
what investors have been focused on
perhaps more so than usual has been the
profits backdrop because a year ago
everyone was expecting that by mid 2024
small caps would have come out of their
profits recession that earnings would
have broadened out and been outpacing
large caps and that just kept getting
kicked out and kicked out and we finally
saw small caps come out of the profits
recession this earnings season. We saw a
big beat by these companies. We saw much
better guidance. So that's been a
positive sign. I mean, the sales data,
the topline growth was a bit more
lackluster relative to large caps. So,
that's something to pay attention to as
we go into the next earnings season. Um,
but but the fact that profitability is
finally recovering and and speaks to
that broadening out of earnings is a
positive.
>> Is the pop on the heels of a potential
Fed rate cut because of just simply a
valuation story that lower benchmark
rates make it more attractive on a
relative basis or is it that actually
they will borrow more that they can do
more that they aren't doing now? whether
it's engaged in M&A, whether it's engage
in acquisitions, whether it's engaging
in hiring plans,
>> right? I think it's a bit of all of
that, I think, but for for small cap
companies, they have a lot of debt uh
much more than than large caps do. They
have a lot of refinancing risk. They
have a lot of debt that's coming due
over the next 5 years. So, there's a big
focus on their interest costs um at a
time when their earnings have already
been struggling uh for for several years
now in this profits recession. And so,
you know, the Fed is is likely a bigger
driver than usual given that focus,
given their leverage profiles right now.
Um, so combine that with with some of
the positive uh positives we're seeing
on the profits backdrop and I think
that's that's a positive near-term. Now,
the sustainability of the rally I think
will depend on, you know, revisions,
those topline trends, the manufacturing
recovery. Small caps tend to be very
sensitive to the the ISM manufacturing
indicator which has struggled to get
back above 50. Um, so a lot of these
factors will be what we're watching to
see how sustainable this rally in small
caps could be.
>> We had a guest that came on the program
a few weeks ago that said to Lisa, "Can
you name a company on the Russell 2000?"
Very few people can. When they buy the
Russell, what are they buying? What's
the concentration risk around say small
caps relative to Sevita's World Large
Caps and the S&P 500,
>> right? Well, there there's some sector
skews certainly in terms of more more
biotech. There's a lot more
nonprofitable, non-earner type of
companies within the index, whether it
be in biotech, small cap software, um,
regional banks, REITs. There there are
some of these areas that are bigger
within the Russell. But I think what's
important is that there are still risks
to the index. There are a lot of, like I
said, nonprofitable companies. That's
elevated versus history. So, I also
think it's a very good environment to to
pick stocks within the index. Um, our
analysts here cover over 900 small and
midcap US stocks. So, you know, amid all
of these uncertainties, whether it's
tariffs, uh, whether it's how how
sustainable is this profits recovery, if
you can focus on companies that, you
know, have better earnings revisions,
have stronger margins, there are a lot
of beaten down stocks within the
Russell, um, and small caps overall are
trading at these big relative discounts
to larger companies. So, it is a good
environment for stock selection. We've
seen the interest there. We saw a big
uptick in attendance at our recent
smidcap conference. We've seen investors
buying small cap stocks this year. Well,
when you broaden out the sort of
complicated backdrop goes to Cvita, your
recent uh change or both of your recent
change in the outlook ahead, you only
see a 6% gain from here until uh 12
months out until the same time next year
to about a 7,000. That's far below where
a lot of other people are. Why not
higher, especially given the expectation
for earnings growth to truly
reacelerate?
>> Well, I mean, here's the here's the
problem. The ballast of the S&P 500 has
been tech and tech earnings are slated
to decelerate. I mean, these companies
are really big. It's harder to grow as
fast. These are companies that are
spending more money on capex, so they're
returning a little bit less capital than
they used to, doing less buybacks. So, I
think that's the that's the other side
of the story is the theme around AI. And
I think what we would need to see a much
higher return and even a positive
surprise in earnings at an index level
is continued AI monetization, big
surprises akin to what we saw in the
second quarter. And it's harder and
harder to forecast that as we move
forward and these companies get bigger
and we're we're you know more deeper
into the AI monetization cycle. So our
analysts are bullish but we are still
seeing a deceleration in that area of
the market. And then the other kind of
simple fact that we all know is the
market tends to anticipate earnings
recoveries. We've seen some great
returns this year. I think that's in
anticipation of what's to come. Um and
you know typically in the best earnings
years for the S&P 500 the market
actually posts kind of you know meh
returns. So, I don't know if we're going
to see another blockbuster year of
returns, but I do think that earnings
are going to broaden out and that's
going to be an exciting story.
>> Given the focus today anticipating the
Federal Reserve decision, how relevant
is that to your world?
>> Look, I mean, I know everyone is
obsessed with the Fed, but I think that
long rates are much more important for
equities, and we've talked about this.
So, you know, short rates have actually
done very little to styy large cap
company performance because their
balance sheets are healthy. They have
less floating rate risk. They learned
their lessons during the financial
crisis and really managed their debt
risk. So, I think the long end is more
important and here's where it gets
complicated. If the Fed is cutting but
inflation has not been, you know,
sufficiently managed, I think that's the
that's the risk. if the long end, you
know, absent yield curve control, the
long end, I think, is is really um, you
know, potentially more dramatic for the
S&P. So, that's what we're watching.
>> Is that something you're focused on? The
risk of a repeat of what we saw last
year when the Federal Reserve cut
interest rates and the long end actually
sold off and yields rose by I think
about 100 basis points.
>> Yeah, we had a real steepening. I I
mean, I think that's good for certain
sectors and bad for others. Um, one
reason we're overweight financials, you
know, energy, some of the more inflation
uh, positive sectors that are geared to
inflation. Um, those are sectors that
can do well in that environment as long
as this is not a disorderly increase in
the long end, which is what, you know,
we all worry about uh, especially on
this desk.
>> The good news is so far through
September, long end rates have started
to come back in. Yields are a little bit
low. We've seen a ball flattening
through the curve through September at
least. And part of it is because of what
Sevita just said. As long as we don't
get yield curve control. Well, that's
actually kind of a big caveat.
>> It's a question into 26
>> and it's a question of exactly how much
this Federal Reserve is willing to push
particularly on that long end especially
because of the focus in the housing
market.
>> Sevita Jill, you're two of the very
best. We appreciate your time.
>> Thank you.
>> Thank you. Sevita Subramanium there and
Jill Kerry Hall of Bank of America. If
you are just joining us, welcome to the
program. Equity futures on the S&P just
a touch softer. Let's give you an update
on stories elsewhere. With your
Bloomberg brief is Vonyie Quinn. Hey,
Vonyie.
>> Hey, John. Thank you. Republicans will
hold a rare midterm convention ahead of
next year's elections. President Donald
Trump posting on Truth Social. The
convention will quote, "show the great
things we have done since the
presidential election of 2024." Trump
said details of when and where the
convention will take place were to be
determined.
Shares of Nvidia trading lower in the
pre-market. The Financial Times is
reporting China's internet regulator has
told the country's tech companies to
stop buying all of Nvidia's AI chips
that were destined for China and
terminate existing orders. The move
comes as Beijing steps up efforts to
boost its homegrown semiconductor
industry and compete with the US.
Microsoft is investing $30 billion in
the United Kingdom as it builds out the
country's AI infrastructure. The tech
giant plans to build the country's
largest supercomput. The plan extends
through 2028 and marks the company's
biggest financial commitment ever in the
UK. And that's your Bloomberg brief.
John,
>> Vonnie, thank you. More from Vonyie in
about 30 minutes time. Up next on the
program, we'll catch up with Amy Lissau,
the Bank of America head of global
activism and rate defense. That
conversation up next, live from New York
City this morning. Good morning.
[Music]
We think the Fed at most is going to
send a signal that they'll be cutting
twice this year and only twice next
year. So, in relation to where the
market is priced, we do think that
that's going to come across as somewhat
hawkish. We just think that the market,
if they're looking for any justification
that this is a Fed that's going to be
cutting quickly, won't really get that
through the mix of communications today.
Markabana of Bank of America, the head
of US race strategy, offering two
interesting views here. One, the hawkish
risk going into the decision later on
this afternoon. And two, continues to
ask a really provocative question about
2026. If this Federal Reserve is going
to see a change of leadership after May,
why would they stop at 3%. would this
Fed run it really hot and go beyond just
3%. Now, I don't think that's Mark's
base case, but he's asking a really
important question we need to consider
going into next year.
>> Well, and actually increasingly it's the
market's base case cuz when you take a
look at Fed funds projections going out
to the end of next year, the rate is
below 3%. So, that is a very likely
prospect. The idea here is we were
always saying, well, what does that do
to the long end if you get a pick up in
inflation? But re in reality, people are
saying, "Wait a second. All that money
that's in the nosebleleed seats up there
in cash account isn't going to be making
the same kind of yield. Let's lock in
something now." And that might be part
of what we're seeing in terms of the
rally at the long end.
>> Does Governor Myron offer us some
insight into what you can expect from a
change Federal Reserve for the year
ahead? Let's turn to markets. Equities
very close to all-time highs, pulling
back a touch yesterday again this
morning. We're down by not even a tenth
of 1% on the S&P 500. If you switch up
the board and turn to the bond market,
twos, 10ens, and 30-year bond yields
going into the Federal Reserve decision
later on this afternoon. Twos settling
down at around 350. This move at the
long end through September has been a
change though. What we saw through
August was a steepening of the curve led
by the front end. What we've seen coming
in September is a flattening of the
curve led by the long end. We've gone
from bull steepener to bull flattener in
just a few weeks. Has the idea of yield
curve control and potentially an
aggressively cutting Fed killed off all
of the bond vigilantes? Are they dead?
Let's bring back uh Edard Denny and find
out where have all the uh where the bond
vigilantes where they go crushed by
central bank.
>> Yeah, exactly. That's where they have
been for a long time. Maybe they still
are.
>> See if that changes over the next 10
years. Let's talk about a different kind
of vigilante. Let's turn to Wall Street.
Amy Lassau, the head of global activism
and raid defense of Bank of America has
this to say. M&A related demands have
spiked in Q3 with activists focused on
sales, strategic reviews, and
divevestatures. Amy joins us now for
more. Amy, good morning.
>> Good morning.
>> It's good to see you. Clearly, deal
activity has picked up through the last
year or so. Can you walk us through how
that's changed your world and whether
we've seen a shift from the kind of
operational pressure we might have had
in years gone by to something different
in 25 to 26?
>> Yeah, for sure. So, we absolutely have
seen a significant shift in terms of
what activist funds are pushing for. And
so, you're right. If we were having this
conversation a year ago, I would have
said it was all operational in nature.
Activist funds were saying that they can
run companies better than existing
management teams could and that was co
coinciding with the change in CEO
campaigns that were getting a lot of
media attention. Now where we are is the
M&A market has come back as you've
mentioned and we're seeing activists
pivot very dramatically to some of those
M&A related themes where they maybe a
year ago didn't think that they could
successfully implement. Now the
mentality is we can get M&A deals done
and that's a broad spectrum of outright
sales of the company or whether it's a
devestature or just announcing a
strategic review.
>> Are they the kind of campaigns that CEOs
are more comfortable with? Leadership
campaigns are super awkward. It's like I
want to get rid of you. Guys like I want
to stay. I'm earning good money. I don't
want to go anywhere. The other kind of
campaigns a little different.
>> Well, it's not as personal. I I don't I
don't disagree with you there. But I
don't think any of these campaigns are
particularly very comfortable for
whether it's the manager teams or the
boards because ultimately the ultimate
risk is the proxy contest which means
changing members of the board including
potentially the CEO. So I think they're
all uncomfortable. They're just
comfortable in different ways.
>> I guess I wonder exactly what is
spurring the increase that we've seen
last year and this year with a record
amount of shareholder activity. Why now?
What sort of has changed? So, a few
things I think are important as we think
about the number of campaigns, and I
agree with you, we've actually seen an
increase year-over-year, and we thought
last year was incredibly busy. So, I
think what's been interesting is if we
go back starting the year, we saw a lot
of activism campaigns in light of the
expectation that we were going to see
more M&A. Liberation Day happened, we
saw activism campaigns significantly
decline because market volatility is not
a friend to the investor community. And
we tend to see actually during periods
of extreme volatility, shareholders tend
to be more differential to incumbent
boards. So we saw activism campaigns
decline but activists are just deep
value investors and they are
opportunistic buyers. We know that they
had position taken a lot of positions
during that period of extreme volatility
and we are now seeing many of those
positions that were taken resulting in
campaigns. So, I think that's why we are
seeing a significant increase,
especially this time of year, which I
would say is when we start to get busy,
but still a little bit early compared to
most companies who have annual meetings
in the spring when we tend to see the
campaigns really get more aggressive
year end leading into Q1. Yesterday, and
it feels like a year ago, President
Trump uh put out on Truth Social, this
idea of uh moving from a quarterly
reporting system to a six-month
reporting system for public company,
something that he raised in his first uh
in his first term. I just wonder how
much that would affect things for
activists, whether that actually
decreases their power and increases the
power of the CEO.
>> You know, I'm not sure. I actually think
companies view quarterly earnings
updates as an opportunity to tell their
story and to explain to their investors
what they want them to hear. So whether
they did that twice a year, four times a
year, I think they might look for other
opportunities to be able to do that,
which companies naturally do anyway by
going and speaking at conferences and
going and having road shows with their
investors to make sure that they are
hearing directly from the company what
their what their message really is.
>> Do you find that management teams are
better prepared now compared to when you
started doing this? Are they in a better
position now, more educated about how to
respond to some of this stuff, more
timely, more agile?
>> So definitely much more educated and I
do think the mentality at many companies
is that you need to prepare for this
because in some respects it's an
inevitability. At some point in time,
you're going to have to deal with
activism in some form. But I do think
some of the tactics that are used by the
activists have evolved in that it's it's
less likely that you are going to be
able to get away with having private
engagement and getting to some sort of
agreement before it ever becomes public
because more and more of our clients
tend to be surprised. Meaning the
activists are really savvy at
accumulating positions using various
derivatives and then they can show up at
a company whenever they decide to show
up at the company, not necessarily when
it's dictated because of 13F filings or
because of a 13D filing.
>> We can't address life campaigns right
now. I don't expect you to, but where
would you suggest we look for more
campaigns in the future? What kind of
industries are going to pop up as being
the dominant targets?
>> Yeah, so TMT, technology, media, telecom
continues to be the area where we're
seeing the most activity. But what's
interesting is actually we've seen a
resurgence in real estate which we
haven't seen a lot of activism in real
estate for a few years and we are seeing
a lot of activity there. So we expect
there to continue to be more I think
some of that still M&A driven.
>> What do you think's behind that? What's
that about? I
>> think there is an expectation that we're
going to see more M&A in the real estate
sector in general. And the other sector
that's similar to real estate in terms
of volume is consumer retail which we
have been seeing a lot of activity in
consumer retail and it continues to be
the second most common sector for
activism right now.
>> Amy this was great. It's good to see
you. Amy, let's listen out there of Bank
of America on the kind of pressure the
seauite's getting at the moment as deal
activity starts to pick up.
>> Yeah. Telling you who you should buy,
who you want to buy, who you ought to be
buying, and then by the way, maybe leave
too. I mean, this is sort of an awkward
campaign, but it is notable to see how
much you have seen an acceleration this
time around. And I wonder whether this
actually does push any companies to want
to remain private, whether private
companies face this in just a different
way with private equity. But it
definitely is an interesting moment,
especially if M&A does pick that up.
There was some paralysis around the turn
of Q2.
>> Yeah,
>> there certainly isn't anymore.
>> Which goes to the question of are we
really heading into a downturn? I mean,
is this really what we're hearing? M50.
That's the for the Federal Reserve this
afternoon. Coming up, we'll catch up
with Eric Shy and Lindseay Hans of
Merrill Wealth Management. Plus, we'll
touch base with Amarie in London as
President Trump arrives at Winter
Castle.
[Music]
Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning to you all from number one
Brian Park, the home of Bank of America
here in New York, the heart of finance
and of course the home of Wall Street.
Equity futures on the S&P 500 shaping up
as follows so far this morning. Just
pulling back from alltime highs in
yesterday's session. No drama. We've had
quite a rally for stocks and bonds since
the Fed last met off the back of two
very weak payroll reports in the bond
market this morning. Your two-year
around 350. That number was closer to 4%
after the last time the Fed last met.
>> There has been a shift in the reaction
function of the Federal Reserve to
prioritize the labor market that has
been sluggish. A real question here is
how much is the Fed underwriting risk
and can they meet the expectations uh
that the market currently has? And that
really is going to depend not only on
Fed Sher J. Powell, but also on Governor
Steven Myron. It is hard to get my head
around that. Steven Myron, who is
Governor today. He was not on Monday. Uh
how much does he really push back
against whatever the committee decides?
>> Having spoken to Steven, Governor Martin
a few times, he doesn't strike me the
kind of person who walks into a room and
starts taking swings at everybody. He
doesn't strike me as that kind of guy.
>> In a recent interview, he said he
doesn't view himself as the smartest
person in the room. He thinks that there
are other people who are smarter, but
he's okay being the most annoying person
in the room and raising potential points
that other people might disagree with.
>> The perfect balance later would be a
descent for 50 if the rest of the
committee doesn't go there. I think that
might be sort of the consensus view for
the governor later on. If Chris Waller,
Mickey Bowman, and Steven Myron all
descent and say that they would rather
have a 50 basis point rate cut, that
will be the greatest number of governors
descenting going back to 1988 and
potentially at a time where that could
be the real thrust of the committee
heading into 2026
>> after the biggest descent since the '90s
at the last meeting.
>> This is an unprecedented time
>> to Fed governors. That descent is
building. Let's get you some single
names, some morning movers. Let's cross
over to Danny Burgerer for more. Hey,
Danny.
>> Hey, John. The weakness in Nvidia shares
continues this morning with a report
from the FT that China is banning some
of its biggest companies from buying and
using Nvidia chips. This is different
than what we had before. It was just a
suggestion of not using them. This hits
companies like Alibaba and Bite Dance
and also suggests that maybe China is
making enough strides that it doesn't
need those chips from Nvidia. So those
shares falling 1.5%
just thereabouts. Speaking of Alibaba,
the ADRs also rallying this morning.
They're getting a boat of confidence for
their AI offering. Specifically, the
Chinese tech giant Unicom will be now
buying Alibaba AI chips. Again, it feeds
into this whole story of maybe homegrown
players succeeding more. So, those
shares again, the US listed ones up
2.3%. Also, about 30 minutes ago, we got
General Mills earnings. It's been a
volatile session for the share price in
reaction. First, they were higher, now
they're lower, nearly by 1%. They did
have a profit that beat estimates and
they said it's kind of because of a
weaker consumer that a valueoriented
consumer is cooking more at home so
they're doing more grocery shopping. But
it's part of that the issue was flagged
that more consumers are buying private
label products and making smaller
purchases because some of that stress.
Hence why you start to see some of that
share price reaction reverse. John
Danny, thank you. Appreciate the update.
More from Danny in the following hour to
get you some movers going into the
opening bell. Let's head to London just
briefly. I want to catch up with Amarie.
She's over in the UK at Windsor Castle
as the president arrives for a state
visit. Now Amarie, a lot of people enjoy
the theater, the pageantry. Is it
anything more than that in the British
capital this morning?
At the moment, it is pure pageantry
happening just behind these fortress
walls of this castle right now. The
president being uh given a tour really
of Windsor estate by a carriage. We're
waiting for a fly pass with red arrows
and F-35 jets at some point soon. That
will really show fortify to the world
the defense posture of both these
countries working together. Then this
evening there's a banquet. Then we
slowly start to move into some more of
the substance of this meeting outside
the pageantry of the state visit with
the royal family. This evening, the
president is going to be flanked by the
top American executives like Microsoft
Satia Nadella, like Nvidia's Jensen
Wang, like Open AI CEO Sam Alman, like
Apple's Tim Cook, uh Larry Frink is also
here. And all the capital is being
directed towards AI. We're talking about
tens of billions of dollars as the
president was touching down overnight.
We were looking at $30 billion
commitment from Microsoft. with the
Microsoft saying on their blog post is
the biggest financial commitment in any
country outside of the United States. So
really a massive win for the United
Kingdom when it comes to the tech se
tech sector and something notoriously
needed right now by this prime minister
is a very different position than seven
months ago when he first extended an
invitation for an unprecedented state
visit for President Donald Trump.
>> Amory with the latest of Windsor Castle.
Amarie, thank you. We don't do a lot of
things. Well, I'll be the first to say
that. No one can compete with the way we
do this.
>> The pageantry,
>> it's just amazing.
>> You guys absolutely nail it. Although, I
can't say you guys. Aren't you American
now?
>> Not yet.
>> Okay. But you're kind of like getting
there. So, like, you know, I'm a guest
in this country. I know. You still
You still spell labor. L A B O.
American. I make spelling mistakes now.
Absolutely ridiculous.
>> Okay. And I say things like aluminum
instead of aluminium. That makes me
American.
>> Fake speech. You know, like I'm I'm
making a transition.
>> That's good. That's good. Okay. Slowly
>> get there. Okay, let's move on.
>> But this is good.
>> Good. I'm pleased we agree on that.
Okay, after that tangent, let's turn
back to Wall Street. The team at Meow
Wealth Management writing the following.
It's not a bull or bare market, but
rather a bold phase where fundamentals
are improving. Expectations are low and
surprises are skewed to the upside.
Joining us now for the discussion, Eric
Shy and Lindseay Hans, the co-heads of
Mel Wealth Management. Guys, it's good
to see you both. Thanks for being here.
>> It's great to be with you.
>> Yeah, good morning. Thank you.
>> Lindsay, let's start with you. $3.7
trillion I think in client balance
sheets right now. Client balances at
Merrill. Where are this that money
going? How prorisk is the appetite of
your clients at the moment?
>> Yeah, our clients have a lot of
different perspectives at any given
time. Uh John, but when we think about
right now, I'd say the two things
they're talking to their adviserss the
most about are how do the headlines
impact me and my portfolio? And a bit
maybe around are stocks a little rich?
What about market valuations? You know,
should I wait for a pullback? So when we
think about things like valuations, it's
a important checkpoint, but it's not an
overall indicator of market health. We
really think when we look at the market,
we feel really good and we're very
bullish. We look at a number of things.
Um the amount of cash on the sidelines,
as you said, uh it's a very solid profit
cycle right now. We have an
accommodative Fed. We have an equity
market rotation where we're getting
broader participation beyond tech. So
all that bodess really well for our
clients and we're quite bullish at this
time.
>> We're looking for this rate cut later on
this afternoon. Eric, could be 25, could
be 50. We're looking for more than that
going into 2026. What kind of activity
changes do you expect to see off the
back of these rate cuts in our future?
You know, at the heart of our business,
what we do is advisers have
relationships that are personal, built
on trust with clients and the Fed might
do something today, 25 basis points,
you've been discussing it it all
morning. But at the end, it comes down
to those individual tailored discussions
that clients have with adviserss. that
if the Fed gets accommodated some of the
things that Lindsay talked about that
could make the market continue to to
rise. Um I just would encourage clients
to have those discussions, you know,
with their adviserss.
>> Okay. Well, let's talk about those
discussions. Let's say the Fed cuts by
50. Then do you go to your client and
you say with respect, what are you doing
in cash, right? I mean, the idea of cash
on the sidelines that Lindsay was
talking about, Eric, I mean, is that
essentially the trigger? What is enough
to trigger cash on the sidelines is
actually earning income to move into
other areas? I think it's all built, you
know, on the work that's done prior to
an announcement like this or prior to to
to a change because again it's rooted in
this idea of having a plan. And so Fed
makes a cut volatility in the market.
It's a perfect opportunity to suggest to
talk to a client and say, "Hey, we've
prepared for this. The time is now. Uh
you maybe the rates you were earning on
your cash aren't as attractive as they
used to be and maybe it's time to put
some some risk back on." And we've
probably started to see that over the
last few months.
>> Yeah. I would say two other things. When
you think about the power of being in
the market, if you look at the period of
2020 to 2025, had you been in the market
on the best 10 days, that portfolio is
up 33% on average, had you missed those
best 10 days, you're up 18%. So just we
constantly, our adviserss constantly,
you know, remind clients that. And the
other thing about the accommodative Fed
and you know the cycle that we are
probably entering into is our clients uh
who are already borrowing from us. Our
high net worth and our ultra high net
worth clients despite the prior rate
cycle we're borrowing are only going to
do that more. Clients want liquidity
solutions. They want to protect their
capital. They want to preserve it. They
want to grow it. They want to pass it
down. They want to transfer it. So they
increasingly come to us for that. And
that is a key asset and part of being
Bank of America because we have access
to a balance sheet that allows us to
provide very customized liquidity
solutions. You may have seen we
announced the you know Melo Lending
Solutions Group last week which is
really to accelerate that growth.
>> Lindsay you point to something that's
really important which is the
competitive landscape and sort of the
pitch and right now the competitive
landscape arguably has never been more
robust on every front given how
lucrative this can be and how much money
there is in wealth management. Where are
the biggest opportunities for growth for
your wealth pl wealth platform given
that you already have a pretty big
footprint and a certain reputation?
>> Yeah, I mean we think about our clients
what we what we know they want they want
big when it matters and but they want it
to feel small and very personalized to
them. So big when it matters is they
want open architecture, a full suite of
traditional investments, alternative
investments. They want access to lending
solutions and they want personal banking
delivered at scale and they want that to
feel unique. They want their adviserss
to be their quarterback. So that is on a
client byclient basis. That's our
biggest opportunity of how we deliver
that to more clients. And Eric maybe on
>> I mean I think if you take, you know,
one of the things Lindsay mentioned was
alternative investing, right? It's a
segment that of of assets that has
really become popular. You know, we've
seen a shrinking of the number of
companies that have going public. You
know, 10 over the last 10 or 15 years.
Um, fewer companies going public. So, a
tremendous amount of private businesses
and companies looking for investment and
need in capital. As I was saying
earlier, diversification works. Cash,
equity, bonds. Well, we think across all
risk tolerances. there's room for an
alternatives portfolio as well and so it
could be a great place to see growth for
our business and opportunity for clients
uh cash on the sidelines moving in uh
our firm proud of it. Merryill was
probably the originator of sort of
offering these things and uh we probably
rang anywhere from 50 to 60 new
offerings on an annual basis and just
last week we sort of announced a a new
offering for a really distinct you know
part of our population niche unique um
institutional like but direct to sort of
the retail client.
>> Just build on that a little bit use the
word diversification. What kind of
diversification are alternatives
actually offering right now? When we've
been talking about private markets with
a lot of people, particularly private
debt, they've been talking about exactly
the same kind of thing we're talking
about in public markets, which is AI,
massive capex expenditure, and get an
exposure to those kind of investments.
How much diversification is there?
>> Well, in in the alternative space,
there's there's plenty. There's private
equity, private credit, you know,
infrastructure. You you see the
introduction of sports teams, I mean,
professional sports. So, a tremendous
amount. Um I do think you know the
artificial intelligence sleeve very
interesting for alternative investing
but I think also sort of interesting
what can happen you know in a wealth
management business with the use of
artificial
>> build on that and I'd love Lindsay your
thoughts I mean how much is AI changing
the way you do things or how many uh
adviserss there are how the advisers
deal with clients
>> I mentioned earlier around our clients
valuing the hightouch aspect of our
business but access to big breath of
solutions when you think about AI and a
full service wealth business, you think
about it primarily on how do you make
our adviserss and their teams more
productive to be client-f facing and
serve clients in a more personalized
way. So, how we can save time on tasks
that really help prepare for client
meetings. Um, you know, think about the
postclient meeting process. Um, that
just gives advisers more capacity to be
able to be face to face with people and
really solving increasingly complex
needs.
>> Because if I'm a high net worth
individual, I'm not, but if I was, I
would not want to speak to a robot.
Would you?
>> Right. That's right.
>> It depends. If the robot's really nice
to me and brings me treats, I'd want to
know that additional work was there and
being carried out by a human being.
>> All right. No, I think that that's
right. But what if that robot were
really really attenuated to make a
difference? What if it really like
brought you things?
>> I'd want lower fees,
>> wouldn't you? I'd rob That's true. You'd
automatically just assume that it's
free. Do you know that they're now uh
the digital employees or robot employees
that are actually called employees in a
lot of different
>> and they're in group chats and stuff?
>> Yeah.
>> Have you guys got any of this?
>> Any of the chat bots on group chats?
>> No, we don't. I I don't I don't think
you'd be surprised that you know the
heads of Maril Lynch believe that advice
is best delivered by
>> There you go. There we'll leave it
there, guys. It's good to see you both.
Thank you. Thanks for having us. Thanks
for being here.
>> Eric Shy, Lizzy Hans of Mel Wealth
Management. Equities at the moment still
just about negative by a tenth of 1% on
the S&P 500. As we continue to count you
down to that Federal Reserve decision,
let's get you some news elsewhere with
your Bloomberg brief. Here's Vonnie
Quinn. Hey Vonnie.
>> Hey John. Thank you. Mortgage rates fell
last week to the lowest level in nearly
a year, spurring a surge of refinancing.
According to Mortgage Bankers
Association seasonally adjusted index,
applications to refinance home loans
jumped 58% last week and were 70% higher
than the same week a year ago.
Apple iPhone sales in China fell 6%
year-over-year in the weeks leading up
to the iPhone 17 launch. According to
Counterpoint Research, sales of
Chinese-based phone makers experienced a
slow summer. The country's overall
smartphone market shrank 2% in July and
August despite government subsidies to
encourage consumption.
Eli Liy's experimental weight loss pill
helped adults with obesity lose 11% of
their body weight. While the pill didn't
prompt as much weight loss as Zilly
Zepbound shot and rival Novo's WGOI,
doctors say it will be easier to produce
and to use. Eli Liy said it will file
for regulatory approval by the end of
the year. And that is your Bloomberg
brief. Tom
>> Bonnie, appreciate it. Thank you. More
from Vonyie in about 30 minutes time. Up
next, Wendy Stewart, the Bank of America
president of Global Commercial Banking.
That's next. You're watching Bloomberg
TV.
[Music]
If the Fed is cutting but inflation has
not been, you know, sufficiently
managed, I think that's the that's the
risk. Short rates have actually done
very little to styy large cap company
performance. Absent yield curve control.
The long end I think is is really um you
know potentially more dramatic for the
S&P.
>> That was Sevilla Subramanium the head of
equity strategy here at Bank of America.
Speaking of Bank of America, great
timing. Just got some breaking news for
you. This headline right here amazing to
think about. We're talking about
weakness in the labor market. The
Federal Reserve cutting interest rates
by anywhere between 25 to 50 basis
points later this afternoon. And then
the team led by Brian Moahan does this
raises the minimum hourly wage to $25
increasing the starting salary to more
than 50k.
That's quite a hype from this team
>> especially at a time where this is so
important for people given the
inflationary impact that a lot of people
have been h feeling and the lower income
spheres. The more income people get the
better it is. We want to ask him, of
course, about what the staffing looks
like, about what this means in terms of
the type of people that they're trying
to hire, how they're accessing talent,
and what they're seeing overall in the
backdrop for the labor market.
>> Starting salary for full-time US
employees at the bank has gone up by
more than 20K since 2017.
>> Yeah,
>> this has been pretty consistent. And I
guess a couple of questions for Brian in
about 10 minutes time. Is this a
reflection of the labor market or just a
reflection of his effort that's gone a
big push for the last something like 10,
15 years?
>> Yeah. How representative is this of
corporations around the country versus a
Bank of America specific push uh given
the type of people they want to attract
and also the way that he's organizing
the business.
>> Brian Moahan, the chair and CEO of Bank
of America on this and a whole lot more
in just a moment. Let's catch up with
Wendy Stewart of Bank of America with
this to say. Contrary to expectation,
companies are still exploring
international expansion. Companies are
purchasing other companies to expand
their geographic footprint. Wendy joins
us now for more. Wendy, good morning.
It's good to see you.
>> Good morning. It's great to see you all.
>> Thank you for having us. That line is
going to be quite a surprise to a lot of
people. After April 2nd, I would have
thought everyone just sort of hands off,
stepped back and didn't want to do a
thing, particularly internationally. Why
do you think that hasn't been the case?
Well, so this has been an interesting
year and you know when we think about
the volatility that our clients have
faced, they're also looking at how to
turn that into a strategic advantage.
And in global commercial banking, we've
talked about the volatility and the
economic uncertainty and we've called it
the te's in the eyes. Clients are facing
tariffs, trade, taxes, if you think
about interest rates, inflation,
immigration policy, and yet through that
they still want to grow. And whether
that's growing domestically, growing
internationally, growing organically, or
growing through acquisitions, our
clients are focused on growth. And one
way to do that is internationally. And
you know, I'll give you two examples of
companies that have done just that. You
know, we had a client that was based,
it's based in the Midwestern United
States, and they were looking at filling
a geographical gap that they had, and
they didn't have any exposure into South
America. And so they acquired a company
this year in Brazil and they did it for
a couple of reasons. It was a good way
to close the strategic gap. They wanted
that geographic um footprint and they
were able to get closer to the clients
and so a lot of people would think well
why would they do that this year but
again they are looking at how to take
the volatility that exists and turn that
into a strategic advantage.
>> How are they financing some of this
growth more broadly? Not just that
example. What does loan growth actually
look like at the moment? Have things
picked up? So loan growth has been a
pretty good story for us. It has been
for many years and and this year it has
continued. And so in that example,
clients going to use debt to finance
some of it. They'll use cash to, you
know, to cover some of the um cost of
that acquisition. And we're there to
provide that financing. And you know,
we've seen, no surprise, but earlier in
the year we did see a spike in revolver
utilization. So if you think about
clients getting ahead of the tariffs at
that time in the spring, they weren't
exactly sure what would happen. And so,
you know, they were building inventory.
Uh, we also have seen a lot of good
lending opportunities for just regular
corporate purposes and some of that has
been uh M&A. How much easier has it been
for you to compete given the reduction
in some of the regulatory overhang? And
we've heard about this from a policy
perspective. Does that really increase
your ability to expand the lending book?
So you know for us what has happened
with the regulatory environment or not
frankly hasn't really impacted our
ability to lend or not uh we have been
following our responsible growth mantra
for many years and from a client
selectivity perspective with the type of
company that we cover in commercial
banking the regulatory environment
hasn't impacted that so much. uh you
know these are strong companies. They've
got strong cash flow and so uh we we
just haven't really seen that impact uh
our ability u to help those clients.
>> How much would it take in terms of FUD
rate cuts for the clients that you work
with to really uh accelerate some of
their lending?
>> So you know it depends on the company.
It depends on the industry. You know we
have clients obviously very interested
in what happens later today. Uh but it's
not only impacting lending, it's also
really impacting our corporate treasury
teams that work with clients. And so if
you think about what they're having to
contend with, one has been around
interest rates and not just in the
United States but around the world. And
so when you think about what's happened
in many cases rates have come down where
central banks have cut. In some cases,
central banks have held rates flat. In a
couple of cases, uh central banks have
actually increased rates. So how do you
manage all of that? And what we're
seeing is uh another way that clients
are taking that kind of volatility
globally with their cash flow and
turning it into a strategic advantage by
managing it very effectively. And we are
we're um helping them with that in a
variety of ways.
>> FX risk has to be another consideration.
We've seen a lot of dollar weakness in a
year where I think a lot of people
expected dollar strength. How have they
pivoted to handle that situation? So, a
couple things, you know, we saw clients
do a lot in terms of onshoring,
reshoring, nearshoring, call it what you
want, over the last couple of years. And
they did that to reposition their supply
chains. And so, as a result of that,
they have been able to manage through
some of the challenges that that supply
chain um gaps have created, but it has
created volatility with interest rate
and FX risk. And so, for FX in
particular, what companies have done is
to say, okay, how am I going to manage
that? And what we're helping them with
is looking globally at all of that
exposure and then putting a net hedging
investment strategy in place so that
they can manage that effectively.
>> This has been one of these surprises of
25 so far. We came into the new year and
we were looking for certainly tariffs
and we got tariffs that's for sure. But
as a consequence we were looking for
some dollar strength and it didn't come.
Dollar weakness was the feature of this
story that I think was widely
anticipated coming into the new year.
>> And to your question and I'm still think
sitting here thinking about it. How do
companies deal with this? Well, how much
they buy, say, an outpost in another
country and just have no currency
differential. I wonder how much that
accelerates international purchases
given the sort of extra risk that is
potentially an easier hedge by just
being there.
>> Based on what Wendy said, we've
certainly seen a lot of that so far in
25. Wendy, it's good to see you.
>> Thank you very much for being here.
Wendy Stewart of Bank of America, just
how much of a difference will a 25 basis
point rate cut make later on this
afternoon? How much of a difference will
50, 75, 100 make to some of these
clients? It depends on exactly what the
trajectory is. But it sounds like maybe
quite considerably, but it depends where
on the curve this goes, right? If this
does unleash a rally like we've seen
over the past couple of weeks and the
long ending of the yield curve, well, it
could be quite a bit. And I think that
that has also been the surprise at least
of late.
>> We've been here for 2 hours now.
>> Yes.
>> I haven't heard a really really strong
case for a reduction of 100 basis points
of the Federal Reserve based on the
economic activity that this company is
tracking. Put another way, everyone
who's come on the show has talked about
an incredible reaceleration going on and
stability as well as corporate
flexibility in the face of a lot of
uncertainty.
>> In just a moment, we'll catch up with
the man himself, the chair and CEO of
Bank of America, Brian Moahan. Plus,
we'll talk about the latest data with
Adich and we'll catch up with the Bank
of America co-president Jim Demar from
New York City. This is Bloomberg.
We continue to expect that we'll see the
25 basis point cut delivered this week.
>> The Federal Reserve opinion is 3% is
neutral. My view is 4% is neutral.
>> The big debate there is do they show one
more cut after September or do they show
two more cuts and I think it's going to
be a very close call.
>> The risk is that the Fed ultimately
won't deliver as much as they should. I
don't think anyone would be completely
shocked by, you know, a more dovish bias
here.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
An Marie Hordern.
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning from our
audience worldwide. This is the third
hour of Bloomberg Surveillance live at
number one Brian Park, the home of Bank
of America here in New York.
anticipating a decision that I feel like
we've been anticipating for a long long
time from this Federal Reserve. Ever
since we got that jobs report in early
August for the month of July that really
started to spook not just the market but
the FOMC, there's been an expectation
this Federal Reserve will cut interest
rates. As we arrive here at the meeting
for the second day in Washington DC as
that meeting concludes, the real
question is not if, the question is just
how big.
>> And what do they indicate given the
changed composition in the Federal
Reserve? Even though as we've just just
been talking with people at Bank of
America, it doesn't seem like this
economy is falling off a cliff by any
means. Right? So if that's the case,
what exactly is the incentive? What's
the trigger point? What's the
understanding of neutral? And this is
the reason why we also get a statement
of economic projections today. It could
be very interesting not only what they
say, but what the dispersion of views
are on that committee.
>> Some real questions just how much that
SEP is actually going to change.
Unemployment really hasn't shifted that
much at all over the summer. And this is
a Federal Reserve that doesn't forecast
payrolls. It forecasts unemployment. The
expectation for a lot of you, I know, is
that the dot plot shows an additional
rate cut. So the two that were already
in the previous round of forecast, but
beyond that for 26, I'm not sure how
much this Fed can offer this afternoon
beyond just risk management or whether
this Fed wants to be that aggressive.
Mark Cabana earlier here at Bank of
America was talking about how there's
this third mandate that suddenly is
taking more uh oxygen out of the room
which is the idea of rate stability or
moderate long-term rates. How much does
that become a new third mandate that
requires some additional tools by the
balance sheet on the Federal Reserve
that gets recognition and discussion
today? And that actually could be the
reason why people are jumping into the
long end before I don't know something
like yield curve control. It's a better
behaved bond market so far. Yield to
down on the session by about a basis
point on a 10-year maturity. Let's get
the next hour set up for you. Coming up,
we'll catch up with the Bank of America
chair and CEO Brian Moahan on the latest
leadership shakeup and a whole lot more.
We'll speak to Adicha Barave as we break
down the latest economic data and Bank
of America's new co-president Jim Demar
as we countdown to that Fed decision
later on this afternoon. We begin this
hour with a leadership shakeup at Bank
of America. Brian Moyahan recently
naming Dean Aanasia and Jim Demar as
co-presidents. The firm writing in a
statement, quote, "Ananasia and Demar
will drive companywide initiatives
focused on long-term growth and returns
and oversee Bank of America's eight
lines of business." I'm very pleased to
say that joining us now is the Bank of
America chair and CEO, Brian Moyahan.
Brian, of course, in London and we're
here in New York. You're actually in our
home and we're in yours. So, thank you,
sir, for making that happen. Brian,
let's get to this leadership shakeup
because we've got a lot to talk about.
Eight lines of business, two very
prominent individuals in this bank at
this institution. How do you and the
team plan to split up responsibilities?
>> Well, it's good to talk to you both and
thank you for coming to our great
corporate headquarters. Hopefully,
they're treating you nicely out there.
Uh look uh this is a recognition of
three teammates Dean and Jim and and
Alistister and the contributions they
made to our company and helping bringing
Jim and Dean to help me leverage across
the businesses and there's a lot of
initiatives we conduct across the
company our growth work streams our
operational excellence our uh AI
initiatives and things and I've asked
them to come help me. Meanwhile, it also
frees up space for that talent group and
you're talking to a lot of them today,
whether it's Lindsay or Eric or Wendy
and others that, you know, continue to
drive those eight businesses for us and
own the business, own the responsibility
for P&L. And there's a lot of talent in
that level. So, the idea is to bring
them to help leverage my time, leverage
a company's time, leverage the
companywide initiatives, and then let
that talent that drives those businesses
keep making great progress.
>> Brian, there is an obvious, perhaps
uncomfortable question. And some people
might have responded to this and just
thought is Brian setting up for
succession or is this just about
changing how the company's run?
>> Well, it long term we have one of the
duties that I and the whole management
teams owes the board of directors is a
series of candidates had the experience
to run this company over time. I'm not
going anywhere in the short term but in
the medium term but I what I it takes a
while to set that up and get people used
to the size and scale of this company.
So you all report all those ins and outs
of succession, but the reality is is
we're a team and we're driving for it.
There's a lot of talented teammates and
and the board will have to make a
decision someday based on uh the facts
and circumstances at the time.
>> Brian, you talk about uh some of the new
initiatives and looking forward to the
bank, the dean and uh the gym that will
be of the future partnering together.
I'm wondering what you're hoping they
can accomplish whether it's the AI
initiatives or beyond. what kind of
projects you're hoping that they will
spearhead?
>> Well, we have a lot of things going for
the last six uh the last year. We've
been working on some work streams to
help drive uh expense efficiency and
implementation new technologies and at
the same time drive growth uh how we
take credit risk and continue to look at
our risk parameters. And so what I'm
asking them is to and they've helped
drive those uh while they've been doing
their old jobs and I've said come do
this full-time and that'll give us more
leverage across the platform. Our
company has a great reach. We have, you
know, we're all over the globe and
Bernie Men's and the team here in out of
London run all the international
businesses for us. We're in a lot of
countries, a lot of teammates around the
world. We just announced a thousand more
teammates that we're building out here
in UK and they could help the company
drive that and put the the key of the
top big company like ours is to work the
seams, work the business connections.
And so Jimmy and his capabilities as he
works with the wealth management group
and Lindsay and Eric on on the clients
that we have especially in the high you
know the higherend clients that he has
relationships with who are hedge fund uh
operators and things like that. So
there's a lot of initiatives but it's
it's really about revenue growth uh
organic revenue growth and expense
efficiency and also thinking through how
technology applies and it just gives me
more power at the top of the house to
join us and these teammates have done a
great job.
I imagine it's going to be United Front
at the investor day in November. The
first one in some 15 years. You
mentioned the CFO now executive vice
president Alistister Borthwick said
this. The most important thing from our
perspective is we feel like we've got an
opportunity to close a relative value
gap. Brian, can we talk about that
relative value gap? Where do you think
that comes from? What is it that you
think perhaps investors don't fully
understand?
Well, as you look at the company, you
have a great organic growth engine. So,
we'll do a million new checking
households and our average checking
balances are three times, four times
industry norm, and we're building that
up. What we're trying to showcase is
what Bank of America is is an organic
growth machine on a very steady
compounding basis. So, if you look at
the projections for our our earnings
growth rates by the street, they're
faster than the average company as the
balance sheet reprices and things go on.
But what we're really trying to showcase
is to put on the table basically the
metrics that we run this company by
across the eight lines of business and
how they work together and then the
international piece and then AI and some
of the other things we work on the
payments business which is embedded in
the lines of business but is a separate
business. It really showed three things.
We have a competitive position uh that
no one else has. We're the you know we
just announced yesterday the largest
small business lender. we have a
competitive growth rate and the organic
growth that's there and then because of
our uh the dynamics our NI lift which it
will be growing as we've told people six
to 7% this year you're going to see the
EPS keep kicking in and the operating
leverage come into the business and the
return on tangible common equity keeps
moving up and that's that's what we lay
out but it it gears off that good that
core or granite growth with the right
risk that we drive this company by
>> Brian as John was just mentioning this
is the first in years. Why now? What
changed for you and is this going to be
a new annual thing?
>> Um, you know, I think we we have 35
analysts that cover us. We spend time at
all the conferences, we spend time
individually, but think about putting on
a table that, you know, where the
company stands right now as we see a a
after the pandemic and after the
interest rate changes and after
inflation fights and all that stuff, we
see that people putting on the table
where we are in organic growth and how
it works together is critical. And I
think yeah, you should expect us to do
it more often. You know, we we have a
lot of connectivity to the people
actually own our stock and and talk to
them all the time, but this is a chance
to sort of lay it all out so everybody
can see it together. And to look at some
of these initiatives are unique like our
employee banking investment initiative,
our continuum, our Meil Edge through
Meil Lynch and the private bank and the
ability for us to take a customer
literally from their first bank account
their entire life and no matter what
happens to them on an individ individual
side or a small business forming today
that becomes the largest company world
or an individual trader that builds up a
capability and becomes a hedge fund
manager. the idea of these continuums
and things like that are are really
important and so we hope to put that on
the table and make sure people see it
and then we'd annually update it but
sort of put a baseline on the table.
>> So Brian, it seems like you're moving
toward a greater degree of transparency
or at least availability at a time where
the president is talking about
potentially moving from a quarterly
reporting system for public companies to
a six-month uh reporting season. Do you
think that that would be helpful for you
as a business manager if you had to
report less frequently in terms of
filing?
>> You know, in the end of the day, we run
the company along the principles of
responsible growth and how we run it.
So, it won't change how we run the
company. It may change how often we have
to talk about it. And inherently, if you
do uh two times a year versus four times
a year, you'd save some money and some
effort. But, you know, my guess is our
investors are going to demand from us uh
more constant reporting. So, we'll see
it all play out. I It's an initiative
that uh was talked about over the last
several years. If it's going to get
done, it has to be done the right way so
it remains in place and I and we look
forward to what comes out of the SEC in
the process. But on the other hand, you
know, we are very transparent what we
do. We we put a lot of information out
there uh things like our digital
capabilities that no one else reports on
quite frankly. And again with the
investor day we'll be able to show that
and really challenge people to say look
if this is what's going on if you've
taken a company had 300,000 people uh 15
years ago that has 212,000 people today
and applied that technology just think
as we start to apply AI more fully we
already have Erica 3 billion customer
interactions but as that applies more
fully uh you'll see the ability for us
to continue to manage the headcount in
the company well while the revenue keeps
growing and so I think we'll report on
that more often than every six months is
my guess based on the demand of our
investors.
>> Lisa, I imagine some CEOs might welcome
this.
>> Yes,
>> even if some investors don't.
>> They might welcome this, but will they
be allowed to actually follow it by
their investors? And that I think is
what Brian is alluding to.
>> I think investors will demand much more
transparency. Brian, I want to talk
about an initiative close to your heart.
The news that we got about 15 25 minutes
ago that you're increasing the minimum
wage to $25 per hour. I remember a very
early conversation with you and this is
something you're very proud of. This has
gone up from say 15 several years ago.
Can you talk to us about why you've
maintained this commitment to driving
the minimum wage higher at Bank of
America?
>> Sure. So, let me let me set two things
up. One, uh over the course of today and
tomorrow and yesterday, we've announced
a series of initiatives. One is to
locate a thousand new teammates in the
UK um that will work in our operations
group and that was announced by Bernie
and Tom uh Tom Scriber. A second one is
to increase to recommit to our military
hiring of Bank of America 10,000
military veterans over the next five
years. We've done this from time we have
about 20,000 working to increase that.
Another is to increase uh 8,000 people
from community colleges to present an
opportunity at Bank of America to
further their career and get into
skills-based training. Uh that's a
doubling or tripling of what we do
today. And then with the 75 branches
that we're deploying and the teammates
there and the third piece is the minimum
wage. And so we started on a travel a
number of years ago with a view that to
be we want teammates to come to Bank of
America with a career mindset. So join
us. So today uh we're announcing $25 an
hour which is $50,000 for a starting
salary across the country um and hire in
some places where the prevailing wages
are higher obviously, but that what that
gives a teammate a chance to join our
company, spend their whole career here
and support their families. So, not only
is it the the $25 an hour minimum
starting wage, it's the benefit
structure, which is a a full 401k match,
a full benefit cost that we for the
teammates in the brackets of $25 an
hour. We basically dropped their premium
coverage and healthcare in 2012 from
$500 a month to $250 a month for family
have never raised it to provide great
health care for them. And then our child
care benefits. So, it's a package. So,
where does that pay back for the
investor? Where that pays back to the
investor is the turnover rate in when we
started this program in the high volume
operations groups and the branches was
you know 20%. It's now down to basically
10ish% or so even below that. That
stability and that career mindset allows
us to do a much better job for our
clients. And what you've seen is the
attrition of termates has gone down.
You've seen the attrition of customers
gone down. and you've seen our customer
scores dramatically improve over the
last 15 years due to this relentless
pursuit to be a career employer. So,
yes, we're very proud of the $25 an
hour, but there there's an economic
benefit for the shareholder and there's
a great uh positioning for the teammate
at the same time.
>> Brian, I wonder also what it says about
the situation, the current environment.
It's very strange that we're going into
this decision with the Federal Reserve
talking about 25 50 basis points of rate
cuts and maybe more. Your team has
talked consistently throughout this
morning about the amount of resilience
they see in the US economy. Pay hikes
like this aren't the kind of things you
would typically see in a recession.
What's your sense of just how tight or
weak loose this labor market actually is
right now?
>> Well, I think if you think of uh 23
summer, you know, the great resignation,
it was very tight. Then it loosened up
and it's it's more imbalanced now. So
our our turnover rate in our company is
running about 8%. And even in places
like uh tech programmers of which we
have you know 30 40,000 of them uh we're
running in double digits is now in 3 4%.
And what that shows you the bid in the
market is different which then shows you
people are being more careful at
headcount. You heard some of my
colleagues talk to you about that. So I
think the unemployment rate is still low
but I think businesses uh are being much
more careful managing their headcount
for a number of reasons. one is to get
by understanding how all the policies
are coming at them fit together. I'm
talking about US businesses mainly. Uh
and then secondly, they're also making
sure that they're careful and I heard
some of my colleagues talk to you about
this earlier. As you think about this
application of technology, we know what
this does. We have half as many people
working in the consumer business than
did we did a decade a decade plus ago.
We have half as many people work in
operations. We know that as these
technologies could apply to our legal
department, our account, our finance
department under Alistister, our risk
department teammates, we know that if we
manage the headcount carefully, we will
do it. So, we look at headcount very
carefully and say, don't hire people
unless you really need them. Not because
we're trying to save money, because
frankly, from a human management
capabilities, we don't want to have
people who don't won't be able to have a
career here. So, we just hired 2,000
plus kids from school. Uh, you know, so
we brought in all those new talent.
We'll hire these 10,000 veterans. we'll
hire these 8,000 people from community
college, but each month we get the right
to make a decision on whether we're
going to hire about 13-500 people and
we're just managing that very carefully.
So, I think we're an example of what's
going on in the broader labor market.
You heard Wendy and my colleagues talk
about it. All the companies are trying
to manage this and and make sure they
get the headcount right because that is
the major expense for a lot of firms.
Brian, about a year ago, you were
talking to us about the ramifications of
AI and the uh explosion of efficiency
and you said that you think that
headcount could remain about the same at
the bank even as the business continued
to expand just in total size. I'm
wondering if that's shifted if you still
see that as the natural progression of
the relationship between the adoption of
machine-based learning and the
relationship to your headcount.
>> So there are two things now. one I think
the time we were talking we were
probably closer to 216 17,000 people or
213,000 so I think we'll be managing
this down but remember at the same time
we're managing out uh through
operational excellence and efficiencies
of applied technology we are now we are
deploying so we're adding Wendy's added
commercial bankers in all the markets
and and and Sharon the team added
business bankers in all the markets and
Katie uh and and and Lindsay and Eric
adding financial advisors and private
bankers so we're adding front-end
people, sales traders, etc. to keep
building out our capabilities. And so
there's a reinvestment going on. The key
to that is really redeploying people and
and reskilling them. So when we bring
these 2,000 plus teammates in who just
joined us in the last month and a half,
we have to be more more mindful about
training them along multiple dimensions
than we might have been uh two or three
years ago. So I think yes I think
ultimately the human being uh count
content of our work product would
probably come down but if we manage it
right it'll be you know flat to the same
amount of people maybe down a little bit
but all paid more and all being applied
to the highest value tasks where frankly
the machines can't do the work and that
that's the important thing we we know
these we know what this AI can do in
today's world Erica has been out there
for seven years three billion customer
interactions 20 million customers using
it all the time you know we see what it
could do we took that and put put it in
our commercial business. We took that
and put it in our internal process. We
got other models to help in Jimmy
Demar's business in terms of a thing
called Optimus and things like that.
There's a lot of out there um but what
you're learning is there still augmented
intelligence and that will be what's
driving the near-term efficiency. So
yes, I think the headcount management is
one of the core tasks that managers have
to take uh take seriously.
I'm just wondering, Brian, as you train
all of these new students, how do you
make sure that they stay with you and
don't go to some of your brethren across
the way in the private asset sphere?
>> Well, we we we provide them a good uh
opportunity. And look, you uh they you
can go other places, but we've been able
to retain enough that we're completely
happy. And and look, even for our
clients, you know, frankly, if they hire
our teammates, it's not the worst thing
that happens in all our businesses. But
the reality is is that we want these
teammates to have a career mindset. In
October, I'll celebrate our teammates
have been with our company 50 years, 55
years, 60 years, etc. And you hear their
stories and their stories of I joined
this company. I worked, you know, in a
summer internship. I came uh may even
work part-time during college. You know,
I became uh a full-time employee and I
started doing this and now I do that.
And those are wonderful stories. and we
have them tell those stories to our
teammates to show you that you could
have a long-term career at a company
like ours. And that's what we want our
teammates to come in with. They may not
stay in trading or investment banking or
corporate banking, but they'll have
long-term uh uh capabilities here. And
you're seeing that even at top of house,
Alistair was a capital markets head and
now he's the CFO. And so that goes on
throughout the company.
>> They swear an oath of allegiance. Yes,
exactly.
>> Didn't you see them lining up this
morning?
>> They came in before they come in. I
promise on my cappuccino which is very
good by the way.
>> Brian, I want to talk about the main
event that takes place later on this
afternoon. I'm not going to ask for your
guess. I know how much you respect the
team behind me and some of the official
forecasts of the bank. I want to
understand from your perspective looking
across the eight lines of business
whether you see an economy market
activity that demands a rate cut from
this Federal Reserve.
Well, you've had the benefit of all our
experts and we have the talented, you
know, extremely talented research team
and you also have some of the line of
business uh teammates talk about what
they see out there. I think you have to
back up if you're if you think about
last year this time the uh projected
growth rates for our team was probably
100 basis points higher than it is today
for 25. And so that that deceleration of
of growth that that their prediction
that was largely based on the uh a
couple things one rates would stay
higher because inflation was kicking in
the impact of the uncertainty and
tariffs etc etc all that's coming
through the system now so you're seeing
some certainty fall into place on this
and I think also inflation was coming
down and I think so the tension the Fed
has to deal with and you've been picking
at it all day is the tension between a
higher inflation rate and ultimately
where uh Fed funds could settle in at.
And so whether they do 25 basis points
today or 50, people have to keep in mind
the growth rate in the economy was
brought down and now it's starting to go
back up. So next year it's predicted to
be better than this year and the year
after is better than that. So you hear
our teammates talk about the economy
growing back out. And that then means
we're on the other side of it. And so
the Fed has to adjust to the inflation
picture. As it got more in control, they
can come down. They came down 100 basis
points already. It can keep coming down,
but they got to be very mindful of the
inflation side. And so I think when the
people get in the room and they see the
data, they have to think it through. The
big news since that you referenced
earlier was the labor market's gotten
softer, so that gave them concern. So I
think, you know, the market believes and
our teammates believe the cut rates. But
I think the key for people is
deceleration of growth and will the
growth reacelerate? You hear our
teammates seeing that we're seeing
consumer spending strong and all those
things which would indicate we'd see the
acceleration. Next year's better than
this year. Unemployment is not expected
to go up a lot even though the
employment picture may be softer. But
the most important thing is the
long-term interest rate scenario people
projecting is a more normal rate
environment that we saw before the
financial crisis. Say 3% plus or minus
on the Fed's fund rate, a four to four
and a half% uh or so on the 10ear rate
and a curve that's not inverted that's
normalized between that. The important
thing is to get back to more of a normal
environment frankly with maybe a little
higher inflation. Uh because the great
debate about 2% is it's something you
can get lots of experts talk about a
little higher inflation a little faster
growth and then frankly that'll help
with some of the debt carry and other
things going on in the US economy.
>> Brian, it sounds like next year you see
the bigger risk as potentially a
surprising bout of inflation than some
sort of downturn. Is that correct?
Well, I think the question is is is how
do you tolerate the inflation and temp,
you know, the nature of it, what's come
from, but you know, and I think that's
the tension of all this, I think, is
next year as you get the second quarter
as these policies are now in place and
are behind us. Are you going to see the
acceleration and growth uh and where our
our businesses get uh start vest even
faster? If you listen, I think if you
asked Wendy about it, she would tell you
her her commercial customers that have
lines of credit are still borrowing less
as a percentage of their availability
than they did. in sort of the 17 18 19
time frame where rates have been out
have been moved up and and the economy
was growing and so why is that? They're
probably not seeing quite the
opportunity and so they're trying to
sort this all out and well, you know,
you I've got the benefit and the honor
of leading a company has this talented
team behind us and all the all the uh
talent and money we spend on research
and everything. If I'm running a company
that the three of us owned and it was a
manufacturing company, I got to figure
it out all myself. That's tends to hold
people back. So that would be the case
for acceleration. And then the question
is if rates stay a little higher and the
growth is higher, that's not a bad place
uh for America to be.
>> Brian, just before you go, I wanted to
sneak this in. One final question. Whose
door do I need to knock for World Cup
tickets? Who makes that happen here?
>> Well, you missed you didn't bring David
Tyrie on who's uh doing all our
marketing and and work. And so uh he
he's the guy that's got control of the
tickets, but he does a great job for us.
that the our relationship with FIFA, you
know, we did the uh you had the Club
World Cup which was sort of the warm-up
and next year and you'll see us
accelerate our efforts. We have great uh
uh capabilities for our clients, but
most importantly, this is a a chance for
America to showcase uh soccer uh
football, soccer as we call it. It's a
case for these cities that are hosting
to put on a great show. And I think uh
you I can see the enthusiasm building
and you're not the first person that's
asked for tickets, John.
>> David Tyrie. David Tyrie.
>> Yeah, come on down.
>> Brian, thank you, sir. Appreciate it as
always. It's good to see you. Enjoy
London. Brian Moahan there of Bank of
America. Let's take a step back and just
think about this economy right now and
what we've heard from this team in the
last 2 hours and 30 minutes. It's not an
economy or a market that's screaming for
an aggressive rate cutting cycle. I
think that's the message that we've
received so far this morning. And the
question is, do you still have that
reticence that's pulling back the
inflationary potential uh given the fact
that companies haven't been investing as
quickly? And that's why I'm actually
really excited to speak with Jim Demar
about just the eminence the M&A cycle
just how much banking activity is
continuing to accelerate as people get
that confidence underfoot.
>> I imagine the phone's ringing for David
Tar as we speak. Exactly.
>> Yeah. I think he's going to be busier
today than maybe expected. Okay, coming
up, some housing data. We'll get the
view on the economy and the latest
economic data with the Adiche of Bank of
America from New York City, live from
Bank of America. This is Bloomberg.
[Music]
Equities just a little bit softer on the
S&P 500. The opening about 60 minutes
away. Got a few things to do over the
next 30 minutes. We've got to get you
the latest economic data, but also a
developing story in the nation's capital
in Washington DC. Let's head down to
Tyler Kendall for more. Hey Tyler.
>> Yeah. Hey John, good morning. Well,
mortgage documents reviewed by Bloomberg
News and out this morning show that the
Treasury Secretary Scott Bessant entered
into a conflicting agreement obligating
him to occupy two separate homes, one in
Massachusetts and the other in New York
as his primary residences. Uh this is
from 2007. Both mortgages were signed on
the same day and issued by the same
lender, Bank of America. One property in
Bedford Hills, New York, the other in
Provincetown, Massachusetts. But
evidence shows that the bank wasn't
actually relying on these pledges. Never
actually thought that Bessant was going
to occupy them both as his primary
residence. And we did get a statement
from one of Bessant's lawyers who
actually had power of attorney and
signed these documents for him, saying
in part that Bank of America was fully
aware the Massachusetts property was not
a principal residence. Going on to add
there was quote absolutely nothing
improper about Mr. Besson's loan
applications. And mortgage experts
agree, telling us for this story, there
is no sign of wrongdoing on Besson's
part, but rather this could demonstrate
how discrepancies on home loan
applications aren't necessarily proof of
fraud. And Fed Governor Lisa Cook's
situation does appear at least partly
similar, though not identical. Documents
reviewed by Bloomberg News over the
weekend show that on at least one of the
properties it was listed as a vacation
home and that the lender in that
instance did not expect her to occupy
that residence as her primary residence.
Of course, John, as you know, this is
playing out in the courts and appeals
court on Monday had ruled that Lisa Cook
could retain her seat while the broader
questioning of her firing ultimately
plays out. But that court found that
President Trump very likely violated her
due process rights to uh defend herself
against these mortgage applications.
John, we are preparing for the White
House to ready their Supreme Court
appeal to that decision.
>> Tyler Kendall, appreciate the update.
Tyler Kendall there down in Washington
DC. Going to keep it on housing, but the
kind of data you might be more
interested in housing starts, building
permits. With the latest is Mike McKe.
Good morning, Mike.
>> Good morning, John. And it's not
particularly good news for anyone in the
home building industry. Housing starts
dropped by 8.5% in the month of August.
And the July uh 5.2% increase was
revised down to 3.4%. So the housing
industry weaker than we thought. The
building permits forecast is even weaker
than we thought, down 3.7% during the
month uh instead of 2.2% last month.
It's looks like at this point uh
builders are still on the sidelines and
not moving, which has been something
that President Trump has pounded on in
terms of trying to get the Fed to lower
interest rates. Mortgage rates have come
down in the recent months uh to about
6.4%.
But that's not where they need to be
according to builders. And if they get
down into the fives, that might start
people moving and that might get the
industry moving again. Uh but that's
going to take a little bit more than a
quarter point cut from the Fed.
>> Mike, we got a full picture of the data
now. The last real data point going into
this decision later on this afternoon.
This one highly anticipated. The meeting
itself, the individuals involved. Mike,
you'll be in the room. You'll be in the
news conference. What are you focused
on?
>> Well, I think the first thing we're
focused on in terms of what Wall Street
wants to know is what's the path ahead.
We're expecting 25 basis points today.
Obviously, any kind of 50 basis point
move would be a big shock and positive
shock probably to the markets, but
that's not expected. So, what are they
going to do in October and December? And
how many rate cuts do they anticipate
next year? That's what's really going to
matter to the people who are investing
money. And then beyond that, of course,
we have all the questions about how
Steven Myron fit in with everybody and
whether or not there are going to be
dissents and whether those dissents
would actually mean anything. So, a lot
to look forward to and it's not going to
be an easy press conference for Jay
Powell.
>> Not at all. This one's going to be
awkward. Mike, appreciate your time.
Looking forward to covering the story
with you later on this afternoon. Let's
keep it on the Federal Reserve. Sticking
with the economy, the senior US
economist here at Bank of America
Securities with this to say, another cut
in October may be on the table if the
labor market were to weaken
significantly further, but it isn't our
base case. Adia joins us now for more.
Adicha, good morning.
>> Good morning. Thank you for having me.
Thank you for having us. 25 basis point
cut expected later on this afternoon.
How much guidance can they provide
beyond just that?
>> I think that's going to be the key
question. What does the dot plot show?
So our base case is that the dot plot
median will show only 50 basis points of
cuts this year. So another 25
potentially in December. And the reason
we think that it'll only be 50 rather
than 75 is that if you look at the macro
forecasts from the June SCP, they've
actually aged remarkably well.
unemployment is on track to meet their
forecast. So is inflation and growth if
anything will come in a little bit
stronger. Obviously you've already heard
a lot about the risks of reaceleration
here. So given that and given that the
dot plot median almost showed one cut
back in June, even a little bit of a
doubbish move would still probably keep
it at two.
>> You talk about a dovish move. There's a
question about the actual cut or the
signal going forward. Not just to signal
the number of rate cuts, but something
Mark Cabani, your colleague, talked
about earlier was the idea of the third
mandate, the idea of keeping rates
moderate over a longer period of time as
one of the three pillars of the Federal
Reserve. If that were adopted, how much
would that change your outlook as an
economist?
>> So moderate is not a clearly defined
term. So, we'll have to see if going
forward a potentially different group of
people at the Fed have a different have
a more specific definition of moderate.
But for now, what I see is an economy
that's probably pretty close to the
neutral rate. You look at where stocks
are. You look at the fact that
productivity might be picking up. And I
don't think there's a clear case here
that the economy is screaming for rate
cuts.
>> If that's the case, why isn't inflation
more of a concern? Why aren't we seeing
that baked into market expectations just
a bit more? So you are actually seeing
some inflation fixings showing a little
bit of a pickup in inflation. Our core
view has been that it's not just about
trade policy. It's also about underlying
inflation and underlying inflation for
us is stuck around 2.5% and we think
it'll remain that way going forward.
Which is why even as the tariff effects
roll off next year, we only have the
core PC going down to 2.6%. There was
quite a difference between July chair
pal and Jackson Hull chairp and I
understand there was a big payroll
report in between but there was a
difference in approach in how he
anchored his view around the labor
market that got my attention he anchored
his view around the labor market around
the unemployment rate in July and then
we got to Jackson Hole and clearly he
was spooked by the step down in payroll
growth you've been focused on measures
of slack and now traditionally that's
something the federal reserve and
monetary policy makers would be focused
on too have you seen a significant
deterioration in measures of slack
alongside this monster step down we've
seen in payroll's growth.
>> So what Powell said in July which was
viewed as very hawkish by markets was
that even if payroll growth is zero, if
the unemployment rate isn't increasing
then that's where break even is and the
Fed doesn't really need to be concerned
about that. And what we wrote at the
time was it's one thing to say it and
it's another thing to walk the talk when
you actually see the data. And that
number, that 258,000 downward revision,
I think it spooked the Fed. And yes,
there's been some deterioration in signs
of labor slack. You can look at the the
ratio of vacancies to unemployed
workers. You can look at the labor
market differential from the conference
board. All of those are showing some
increase in slack, but it's been
relatively moderate. Spook them into
what? I think that's what we're
wrestling with today. spook them into a
25 basis point riskmanagement decision
or spook them into we need to come out
and convey to market participants today
that this is the journey back towards
neutral and we think neutral is around
three and we're looking to get there
quickly. The committee is going to be
divided on that question and the key
question that we'll get answered today
is where does power land. Is he on the
side of we need to do a little bit but
we don't need to do a lot or is he on
the side of we need to go all the way
back to neutral. We're in the first
camp, but we'll learn more today.
>> How much are you going to take true
signal from whatever Governor Myron has
to say? How much is he the new loadar in
some ways of the committee in 2026, if
not today?
>> I think it'll depend on how much the
committee changes next year. That's
still an open question. We don't know
how many seats will be available on the
board. We don't know how much turnover
potentially there'll be amongst the
regional presidents. So, that's I would
say very much an open question. But for
this meeting, we know that Governor
Myron will be an outlier.
>> Adicha, it's good to see you. Adja Bab
there of Bank of America Securities.
He's looking for a 25 basis point
reduction later on this afternoon, but
raising some big questions about just
how much more this committee can offer
beyond that.
>> This to me is the ultimate question. How
prevalent is this inflationary risk in
markets and how realistic could it
become should you get some sort of
outsized move or outsized indication of
what they're planning to do next year?
Throughout the whole of this morning,
there's been a pretty consistent theme.
Fairly resilient economy relative to
maybe some of the spooky headlines
around payrolls growth and the real
risk, perhaps not the base case, but the
real risk that we get a reaceleration
through next year alongside some sticky
inflation.
>> One of the most important conversations
was around the retail sector. I found
this morning, which is the true test
when they raise prices later this year
into the fall into the winter uh holiday
season. How much do consumers push back?
How much do they uh allow those to keep
going? And if that's the case that they
continue to adjust to higher prices,
that's a very different inflationary
back.
>> There's nothing easy about this
afternoon. Maybe cutting 25 basis points
is an easy decision to make. But there's
nothing easy about the kind of guidance
you could provide in a moment like this.
>> Do you think that JP Pal can just get up
and say, "Look, we're going to cut 25
basis points. We don't really have
anything else for you. We don't know
more than you. Thanks so much, guys.
Peace."
>> Just start rolling up the statement,
start throwing at him conference when
people ask questions. I don't know. Do
you know?
>> It's going to be a lot of questions.
Where's Steven Min?
>> Yeah,
>> let him lead the news conference. We
want his thoughts on things. Yeah,
>> be interesting.
>> Okay, let's get you an update on stories
elsewhere this morning with your
Bloomberg brief with our top headlines.
Here's Vonnie Quinn. Hey, Vonyie.
>> Hey, John. Thank you. House Republicans
have unveiled a stop gap spending bill
to keep the US government open passed an
October 1st shutdown deadline. The
measure would keep agencies operating
through November 21st and provide new
funding for security. The bill needs at
least seven Senate Democrat votes to
overcome procedural hurdles, but does
not include healthcare policies that
Democrats have demanded.
President Donald Trump announced a deal
to keep Tik Tok running in the US.
According to the agreement, which is yet
to be finalized, US companies including
Oracle, Silver Lake, and Horowits, would
take an 80% stake in the social media
app. China's Bite Dance would own less
than 20%, satisfying a 2024 US law that
required the Beijing based company to
divest.
Subhub is going public. The ticket
platform priced its IPO at $23.50 a
share, raising 188 $800 even million.
The offering values the company at over
$8.5 billion. StubHub will begin trading
on the New York Stock Exchange today
under the timble symbol FTUB. And that
is your Bloomberg brief. John.
>> Hey Vonyie, thank you. Thanks for this
morning. Up next on the program, we'll
catch up with the Bank of America
co-president Jim Demar as we countdown
to the Fed decision later on this
afternoon. Live from New York City this
morning. Good morning.
[Music]
the tension the Fed has to deal with,
and you've been picking at it all day,
is the tension between a higher
inflation rate and ultimately where uh
Fed funds could settle in at. And so
whether they do 25 basis points today or
50, people have to keep in mind the
growth rate in the economy was brought
down and now it's starting to go back
up. So next year is predicted to be
better than this year.
That was Brian Moahan, the chair and CEO
of Bank of America. I think we should
sit on those comments just for a beat, a
few beats. I think they're important.
We're going into this Federal Reserve
decision later on this afternoon. People
are looking for a rate reduction and
some aggressive guidance into 26. And
you've got the CEO of one of the biggest
banks in this country, one of the
biggest lenders to companies across this
nation talking about the prospect of
growth picking up next year and
inflation remaining sticky. I think
that's something to keep in mind going
into later this afternoon,
>> especially and let's build on that. This
idea that rate hikes didn't necessarily
put the brakes as much as people had
expected on the economy. How much will
rate cuts cause a spur to that
reaceleration? Really add some fuel to
the growth that potentially could
already be there in the form of more
borrowing, more mergers, more activity
more broadly.
>> We can continue this conversation as we
count you down to that Fed decision
later on this afternoon. I'm pleased to
say that we're joined by Bank of
America's newly appointed co-president,
Jim Dear. Jim, it's good to see you.
>> Great to see you.
>> Is it Jim or Jimmy? I'm always confused.
Brian called you Jimmy.
>> You can call me whatever you like. We're
going with Jimmy.
>> Either either's either's more than
acceptable.
>> Jimmy, congratulations. Congratulations.
>> Thanks very much. Appreciate it.
>> It's fantastic to get some time with
you. I want to start by talking about
markets before we talk about the
operational stuff.
>> I've lost count of how many quarters
that you've seen growth in the markets
unit. What are we on now?
>> Uh 13 as of the last as of the second
quarter. earnings are coming soon.
>> We have to wait till those come out, but
you know, we indicated at the Barlay's
uh conference last week and and uh when
Brian spoke before, you know, mid single
digits for the market. So, knock on
wood, we should be uh we should be at
14.
>> Where's that growth coming from? And
just how crazy was the start to Q2?
Yeah.
>> 25.
>> Yeah. I think for us it's been uh a
story of having the additional financial
resources to to help clients execute on
what they want to execute because
markets have grown you know considerably
in size and and market value and taking
a step back from that for us our
equities business it's been a huge focus
for us the past four years investments
in you know financial resources plus
people plus technology and then you know
within the fick uh kind of sector if you
will um uh the rates business has been a
place where we haven't done as well as
we think we and and and we're we've seen
a turnaround there as well.
>> Maybe the Fed will help you out
especially today.
>> A lot of uh a lot of anticipation as you
mentioned you know great deal of
variance in terms of not necessarily
this meeting but you know what the next
six to 10 months brings us.
>> John alluded to it and I think it's a
really important point. There's a
tension between this push for the Fed to
ease financial conditions given the fact
that financial conditions at least you
could probably tell us but other people
have told us seem pretty easy. Yes,
>> they seem like pretty free flowing and
people can go out and borrow money if
they need to. Can you square that circle
for us?
>> You know, I think what we've done a very
poor job of is talking about financial
conditions um based on uh size of
companies or in, you know, individuals
themselves. We've broken it down. You
know, you had uh Liz on this morning.
We're talking about small business um
and what's going on there. um you know,
smaller businesses and on the lower end
of the economic uh uh kind of scale, if
you will, for individuals, they're more
sensitive to
short-term rates and floating rates. So,
yeah, if you're a large corporation,
you've been you've had, you know, easy
access, the markets have been very
favorable. You issued a, you know, you
refinanced back in 2021 and you locked
in some very low rates. Uh homeowners
did the same. you know, mortgage rates
were below, you know, 3% and uh again,
if you were, you know, if you're a
smaller business and you you relied on
floating rate debt and you don't have
access to the broader capital markets,
this will be a relief. So, I think I I
think that's a story that people should
focus on.
>> So, I guess that another way of saying
this is when the Fed started hiking
rates, people were surprised that the
economy didn't just tumble into
recession. Are we going to be surprised
by if the Fed cuts rates, how little it
helps boost growth, or do you think that
it will boost growth substantially, that
we will see M&A pick back up, that we
will see borrowing increase even more?
>> I think we're going to have to again
bifurcate it and take a look at
different parts of the economy and see
who's benefiting. But to your point u
you know point on on M&A and activity
for all the pessimism and climbing the
wall of worry I I don't you know there's
a lot of activity happening across a lot
of sectors whether it's you know tech
energy utilities power you know data
financial services we just saw you know
M&A activity and you know there's more
discussions on that uh healthcare
I don't know equity prices are high
credit
>> how this market is priced
>> and people and companies are making
money
>> so where on earth are you going? The
Fed's about to juice the whole thing.
>> How are you thinking about things?
You've you've seen so many cycles. What
is this? What is this moment? The Fed
spooed by
>> It's a very different one. Um that's for
sure. There's some information we put
out recently that showed, you know, when
when the Fed is cut almost every I think
it's been every single time and I don't
remember the the exact number, but um
into a strong kind of equity market. We
continue to get a rally for the next 12
months.
>> So that that's there.
is one thing though, but can I just push
this point? I want to understand from
your perspective whether it's something
more than that. Whether some kind of
great misallocation of resources is
building care. I can't think of many
times where I've met investors who are
incredibly aggressive about the capex
spend of a handful of companies.
>> Yes,
>> it's sent the equity market to all-time
highs and the Federal Reserve again is
about to come out later on this
afternoon
>> and juice the whole thing by even more
potentially. I understand what they're
responding to. It's the payroll story. I
want to understand the consequences from
a market perspective just how dicey
things might get further down the road.
>> Again, I think you I think we have to
see a considerable drop in longer term
rates to really get that traditional
impact. Um, you know, we had an inverted
curve for an extended period of time
which everybody indicated should should
indicate a weakening economy which we
which we didn't see. And to your earlier
question, um I don't think we ever had
in history uh fiscal and monetary pos um
policy at odds. And that's what we had.
I mean, everybody talked about, well,
rates are up 400 basis points. Well, you
know, we also had the largest spend uh
by the federal government, you know, in
history, not only in absolute dollars,
but as a percentage of the economy. So,
uh the policies weren't aligned. That's
a that's a we talked about it a bit
then. um you know 2 years later 3 years
later we're talking less about it but I
think it's going to be you know is this
going to be inflationary I think people
have to also think about fiscal policy
and what's going to happen there
relative to what the monetary policy is
>> there's also the idea of deregulation
which we've seen quite a bit and that's
one reason why people have been very
optimistic on the banking space does
that allow you to take more risk and
compete more significantly say with some
of the private asset managers that have
really uh made more headway into the
space
>> yeah I think for us on the and for the
industry on on regulation, it's more
about clarity, which is one of the
things that, you know, we've talked
about a great bit, whether it's stress
testing, um some things on SLR, um GIB,
you know, those are all things that I
think uh play an important role in in
regulation in in you know, in a safe
environment, but you know, a lot of
questions around were uh uh too
restrictive and and you know,
compounding as opposed to kind of
catching the bubble from or the balloon
from squeezing out, you know, in another
direction. Um, I think one of the one of
the in the broader economy, I think
there's a lot of regulation that's
occurred that we're less uh familiar
with because we're not in that
environment. But if you go across the
country in many industries, the
excitement is around less regulation
there. I think it's going to be less
about us quite frankly and more about
for the broader economy. I wonder how
much we've keep talking about the dollar
as the backdrop here and how much it's
been weakening and I wonder for you as
the head of capital markets, the
co-president of a bank that has America
in its name.
>> Yes.
>> How much more difficult it is for you to
compete globally at a time where there's
a real question
>> about US policy, about the dollar, and
about what the relationship is going to
be.
>> Yeah, it's certainly um you know, it's
certainly a topic meaning the dollar.
You know, we're a global business. Yes,
we are, you know, we are Bank of
America. We have a dominant, you know,
position in the US. We've grown our, you
know, international business, which I
didn't highlight when we're talking
about areas of growth, but international
is a focus for us. Not expanding beyond
where we are, but just being more
meaningful in the in the regions that we
are. And, you know, we just look at it
and say we have global capabilities and,
you know, we can we can transact and and
you know, warehouse risk where we need
to, you know, for clients. one of the
big uh I think uh misunderstandings or
or uh where it's not thought through
enough
uh it's going to take some considerable
time for this to occur. You know, we're
looking at, you know, weakness in the
dollar 10% 15% versus, you know, versus
its peak. Uh we're still the largest
capital market to invest in
and you just have to keep that in mind.
>> I want to finish by talking about you.
>> Yeah. You've had a pretty tight remit
for quite a while. Yeah.
>> Are you excited about the prospect of
stretching your legs a little bit having
a look at other business lines?
>> Yeah. I mean, uh, you know, I've been in
the markets business 35 years in
different, you know, capacity, but I've
always had interaction across the firm,
whether it's been investment banking or
corporate banking or whatever it may be.
And I think if you take a look at, you
know, these areas of where there's Brian
talked about organic growth and where we
can do it, I think there's there's some
considerable opportunity for us to be
more consistent in our delivery. You
know, we did it in the markets business.
I tried to deemphasize fick versus
equities and think about markets and how
we how we can deliver for clients. And I
just view this as an expansion, you
know, of that and trying to help
everybody bring that to fruition cuz,
you know, ideas are great. Execution is
everything.
>> Does that mean spending less time with
these guys?
>> They're going to miss you.
>> I'm going to miss it.
>> I've sat on a trading floor for 35
years. Yeah. You know, it's a great
thing. It's been a great experience.
It's given me a lot of opportunity. Um,
we have a lot of talented people that,
you know, as I said in the meeting we
had earlier in the week. You know, I
know everybody's saying congratulations.
Now, the next question is, "What about
me?" Which is for everybody else in the
room. What does this mean for me? And,
you know, we're going to be making those
decisions over the next couple weeks,
but we're pretty excited about it. Um,
team's pretty excited about it. And
response has been very good.
>> We'll give you some space to figure that
out. Jim, I know how you love the
markets business and thanks for spending
some time with us. We appreciate it.
>> Appreciate it. Great to see you guys.
Jimmy Dear there of Bank of America, the
newlyannounced co-president. Very cool.
>> Yeah, very cool. At a time of incredible
transition technologically, but also
economically at a time when the markets
continue to keep grinding higher.
>> That does it for us. A special thanks to
everyone here. Thank you very much. And
excuse us for all the noise. You get
your home back. We'll be back a little
bit later on this afternoon, 1:30
Eastern time. A Bloomberg surveillance
special. The Fed decides from New York
City at number one park, the home of
Bank of America. You've been watching
Bloomberg Surveillance.
[Music]